As long as there's cash in people's
pockets in FOMO, markets are going to
continue to grind.
>> The tailwinds for the market is
basically the speculative frenzy that is
going on right now.
>> A lot of what the issues are that could
result in a repricing. They're all out
there. The question is, are the markets
reflecting that?
>> The market is expecting lower rates.
This is what the beginning of a new bull
market looks like. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now coming
into Friday. Descent is brewing.
>> Looking across the soft and hard data, I
get a picture of a labor market on the
edge. policy should look through these
tariff effects and focus on underlying
inflation, which seems to be close to
the FOMC's 2% goal. I believe it makes
sense to cut the FOMC's policy rate by
25 basis points 2 weeks from now. Fed
Governor Chris Waller pushing for a rate
cut, suggesting the labor market is on
edge as Fed chair Jay Pal is attempting
to address criticism coming from the
White House. The US equity market is
cutting through the noise and heading
into the weekend, sitting at fresh
all-time highs. And part of the reason
why is because companies are saying
things are actually looking better and
there is more confidence coming from
consumers and you saw that reflected in
the hard data yesterday with retail
sales coming in better than expected. So
then we have to turn to the Fed. The
idea of strength versus weakness, the
fact that Fed chair uh that Fed Governor
Chris Waller is talking about potential
weakness and the need to cut. Is that
because of a lack of inflation or is it
because there is something emerging
under the hood that maybe equities are
not picking up on? Later on this
morning, a mustwatch conversation 8:00
a.m. Eastern time, 2 hours from now. A
conversation here in New York City with
the man himself, Governor Chris Waller.
If you went through that speech last
night, two big assumptions here, Bremo,
a large share of tariff increases won't
be passed through to consumers. One, and
two, any increase would fade over the
next year or so. And it all comes down
to in terms of the why the labor market
not seeing the wage increases that would
perpetuate some sort of inflation over a
longer period of time. He said looking
across the soft and hard data I get a
picture of a labor market on edge. And
he said that the risk to a weakers of a
weaker uh jobs market is greater and
sufficient than the risk of inflation to
cut rates. He might have some company.
An increasing number of Fed members seem
to have a similar kind of idea than is
he. Just how much descent will we see at
the end of this month? This is going to
be music to the ears of this president
who spent the whole week going after
Chairman Pal.
>> Absolutely. Especially when Christopher
Waller came out, his first point was
about tariffs, saying tariffs are a one
off price increase in price levels.
Standard central bank practice is to
look through these price level effects
given the fact that the Fed chair Jay
Powell has continuously said we need to
wait for the tariff rates to decide
whether or not we're going to cut rates.
Also, interesting part, Q&A session. Has
President Trump or anyone in the
administration asked you to take on that
role? Nope. Next question.
>> Nope. This is not political. Remember
that the last time Governor Wallace
spoke? Let's talk about the data. This
week, retail sales decent, jobless
claims better, downside surprise on CPI,
on PPI. You're going to have a very
split FOMC at the meeting in a few weeks
time.
>> Especially because it's not just Chris
Waller and Governor Bowman. It's also
Mary Dailyaly, the San Francisco uh Fed
president who spoke with our own Michael
McKe and talked about how she does see a
growing risk and she's increasingly of
the view, similar to Chris Waller, that
the inflation coming from tariffs isn't
going to be sustained. I just wonder if
it's going to be two denters or if it's
going to be more.
>> Chairman Pal might be increasingly
lonely. increasingly lonely, facing more
and more criticism down in Washington DC
and writing a letter I believe or
getting someone to write a letter back
to the White House to talk about how
seriously they take public resources.
>> Right. He went to the OM director Russ
Vault with this letter talking about the
fact that yes, they have this
transparency now when it comes to
renovations. They want to be honest with
the administration. They say they have
been transparent. The Fed has also added
a web page for transparency on the
renovations. According to Powell, he
says they deny that there's VIP
elevators. He defends the the roof that
they had to fix. Quote, "There are no
special private or VIP elevators being
constructed as part of the project."
Quote, "There are other references in
the plan to vegetated vegetated roofs,
often referred to as green roofs, which
are commonly used to help with storm
water management to increase building
efficiency and roof longevity. Green
roofs are found on other federal
buildings like the Department of
Justice. So really trying to make this
case that what we are doing is normal
procedure and other institutions and
buildings have done it as well.
>> I get the feeling even with this letter,
this story won't die, right? It's not
going to die.
>> I did not have on my bingo card for 2025
that we all would be scrutinizing the
line items of the renovation of the new
Fed Feda building. Yet here we are.
>> Here we are. Here we are doing okay.
Equity futures on the S&P positive once
again by a tenth of 1%. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Peter
Oppenheimer of Goldman Sachs with stocks
back at all-time highs. Tobin Marcus of
Wolf Research as Fed chair JP Pal
responds to the White House and Henry
McVey of KKR on Governor Waller's push
for a July rate cut. We begin this hour
with stocks at all-time highs and Fed
Governor Chris Waller pushing for a rate
cut. Peter Oppenheimer of Goldman Sachs
writing, "While US fundamentals remain
solid, the valuation premium is
increasingly difficult to justify."
Peter joins us now for more. Peter,
welcome to the program, sir. Let's talk
about the valuation premium and the why.
The data this week is good. The earnings
have been okay and we've got an FOMC
slowly leaning towards a rate cut.
What's not to like?
>> Well, John, I think this is a relative
rather than an absolute story. You're
right. If interest rates are coming
down, and we think they are, and the
economy continues to grow, if even at a
more moderate rate, generally that's a
good backdrop for risk assets and for
equities. And the US is no exception,
particularly as it's increasingly again
dominated by its biggest tech stocks
which are generating really strong
earnings growth. But it's really the
relative premium against other markets
which has reached a record high which is
harder to justify when other markets are
beginning to see their own tailwinds.
Europe for example uh is enjoying
stronger growth. You know, we think
about last year the US economy was
growing at 83%. Uh Germany was stagnant.
By next year they'd likely be growing at
relatively similar rates and yet the
valuation gaps are uh extremely wide and
that's an opportunity we think to
diversify. It is a question of where you
diversify given the fact that a lot of
people are expressing it through the
currency and the currency is having a
balancing effect in so many ways given
the fact that it might actually be a
tailwind for US corporate earnings and a
headwind for European ones. How do you
factor that into this equation?
That's a very good point and absolutely
right and particularly for the dominant
tech stocks which are very global in
terms of their revenue streams and they
have very strong balance sheets uh a
weaker dollar will help them. So that is
good indeed for the dominant companies
in the US and from an earnings
translation perspective it's a headwind
in Europe or or indeed Asia but on the
other hand in terms of flows what we're
beginning to see is more appetite for US
investors to spread their risk to
diversify to benefit from some currency
gains that they may get in cheaper
markets like Europe or emerging markets
for example. uh and indeed it's also an
increasing incentive for investors in
Europe to keep more of their funds at
home. So from an earnings translation
perspective, it's a headwind in Europe.
It's a tailwind in the US. But from a
diversification perspective for for
investors, I think this is likely to
encourage a broader spread of assets
than we've generally seen over the last
decade. How interest rate sensitive is a
story at a time where some people are
talking about possibly an ECB cutting
rates more quickly than a Fed and then a
question of whether maybe the Fed will
cut rates just as quickly uh in perhaps
a different composition at the Fed.
>> Well, we're we're more uh mature through
the interest rate cycle in Europe, at
least in the Euro zone. We're expecting
one more rate cut, getting policy rates
down to 1 and 3/4. We think we have a
series of rate cuts to look forward to
uh in the US uh to get policy rates down
to 3 three and a quarter. Um what I
think is worth also emphasizing though
is that while there are prospects for
bigger rate cuts from a higher level in
the US than perhaps in Europe, uh
long-term interest rates are not really
coming down. And that's a reflection of
course of concerns about debt
sustainability and debt financing not
just in the US but in other countries as
well. Bear in mind in Germany while
we're getting these policy rate cuts,
long-term interest rates are actually
edging up as it also finally increases
its borrowing and fiscal uh um uh
spending which is good for growth, good
for the equity market but of course puts
upward pressure on long-term interest
rates. Peter, speaking of Germany, the
Bundes Bank president today came out and
said that challenges to Fed
independence, which he calls in the DNA,
the autonomy of good central banking,
would resonate beyond the shores of the
United States. What kind of impact could
we see if we were to see the president
of United States get rid of Jay Powell
and fire him in Europe or inside Asia
and emerging markets?
Well, look, we shouldn't uh forget that
independent central banks have not
always been the norm throughout history,
and this was something that really
gained prominence in the 1990s and
beyond. Um, and of course that has
helped both to bring down inflation, to
bring down inflation risk premier as
investors have become more confident in
stability. uh and brought down risk
premier and the cost of capital in
general. I think anything that
challenges the independence of the
central bank will uh be reflected in
higher risk premier, but I think we're a
long way away from that. Uh and as
you've been saying in your reports, uh
the conditions in the US are favoring
interest rate cuts anyway. Uh we're
getting into a more benign phase of the
cycle after the big inflation rises that
we saw following the pandemic.
Unemployment's edging up a little bit
and there is room to cut rates. That's
true in the US. It's true across Europe,
the UK and other areas as well. And by
the way, some weakness in the dollar and
interest rates coming down in the US
will resonate and be positive I think
beyond US uh uh shores very beneficial
for example for emerging markets also
which have tended to lag behind over a
long period of time. So, um I think
there's a long way uh we're a long way
away yet from people really uh worrying
about uh central bank independence.
Let's hope you're right, sir. Let's go
to catch up. Peter Oppenheimer of GMA.
Thanks. Peter, thank you. A little bit
later this hour, we'll catch up with
Henry McVey of KKR. Henry making the
point we're about to see a global easing
cycle of which I'm sure the ECB and the
Fed further down the road might be a
part of.
>> Yeah. And this really speaks to the
question of is it justified at a time
where you potentially have a lot of a
lot of productivity gains and you
potentially have this entire investment
cycle and that's also part of what Henry
McFy is talking about the idea that
we're about to see a
re-industrialization akin to what we
haven't seen for a very long time on the
heels of AI that allows that
disinflationary force along with
strength.
>> What I find interesting in the
intersection of politics with all of
this if people are starting to say that
we are going to see rate cuts brought
up. I mean, you have Christopher Waller
talking about happening in the next two
weeks. Then Trump might get what he
wants and Powell might still be the Fed
chair. He might not have to fire him and
he's still going to be able to get what
he wants right now because some of the
data for some people are pointing to the
fact that there is an opening to bring
interest rates down.
>> So much drama this week. Stock market
alltime highs going into the weekend.
Equity futures this morning positive by
another tenth of 1%. Let's give an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's Lizzie
Burton. Hey Lizzie.
>> Hey John. Fed Governor Chris Waller
calling for the Fed to cut rates when
they meet later this month. Waller said
that inflation from tariffs will be
temporary and warned that while the
labor market looks fine on the surface,
private sector job growth is near quote
stall speed. Waller will join
surveillance at 8 a.m. Eastern this
morning. Elsewhere, Netflix beat
expectations across the board in the
second quarter, posting revenue of 11.1
billion. It also raised fullear
guidance, forecasting $45 billion in
sales and near 30% margin. The company's
market cap now exceeds $500 billion as
it leans into content and ads amid
rising global competition. And President
Trump has been diagnosed with chronic
venus in insufficiency, a common
condition causing swollen ankles. The
White House medical unit says he remains
in excellent health with no signs of
DBT, heart failure, or systemic illness.
And doctors attribute the recent hand
bruising to aspirin use and frequent
handshakes, calling it benign. That's
your remote brief. John
>> Lizzie, thank you. More from Lizzie in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, pressure building on FedShare.
J Pal.
>> I think again this is a good use of
taxpayers time to look into this uh
project that is millions and millions of
dollars over budget. Uh it's for a big
beautiful mansion for the Federal
Chairman, reserve chairman. Up next on
the program, Tobin Marcus of Wolf
Research live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Two days of gains on the S&P 500 heading
into the weekend at all-time highs and
adding just a little bit of weight to
the rally this morning. Up a tenth of 1%
on the S&P on the NASDAQ up a tenth of
1%. Also, Bremo yesterday, Mike Wilson,
Morgan Stanley. This is what the
beginning of a new bull market looks
like.
>> And a lot of people seem to agree with
him. Henry McVey of KKR, you mentioned
him, he's going to be on later. Seems to
agree in the sense that suddenly we see
this investment from AI percolating
through the entire corporate ecosystem.
That is what we're seeing in earnings
and that is the reason why people are
looking past all of the noise and the
headlines. They're sick of them. They
want to just see what the companies are
actually doing.
>> Freaking out for the last several months
about policy. I get it for good reason.
You sat down with Scott Kirby of United
Airlines. When you listen to these
business leaders right now, just stay in
the course. seemed pretty confident
about the back half of 25.
>> After they saw the one big beautiful
bill passed, companies got a lot more
confident. People started traveling more
for business. But then you saw consumers
sick of just being numb by headlines.
They want to travel. They want to spend.
Watch what they do, not what they say.
When you watch what they do, they're
still going out there and living just as
the way that they did before.
>> If you are just tuning in, welcome to
the program. Stocks on a record-breaking
run once again on the S&P 500 this
morning. Just about positive under
surveillance this morning. pressure
building on Fed chair Jay Pal.
>> I don't believe there's a deadline the
president has set for Russell, but I
think again this is a good use of
taxpayers time to look into this uh
project that is millions and millions of
dollars over budget. Uh it's for a big
beautiful mansion for the Federal
Chairman Reserve chairman. It's
completely unnecessary. It's overpriced
and I think it's a good thing the
administration uh led by the president
is looking into it.
>> Here's the latest this morning. and Fed
Chair J. Pal responding to White House
criticism over the Fed's renovation
project, writing in a letter to the
director of the Office of Management and
Budget. We take seriously the
responsibility to be good stewards of
public resources as we fulfill the
duties given to us by Congress on behalf
of the American people. Joining us now
from Washington, Mike Shepard. Shep, as
we said at the start of this program,
this story just won't die.
eager to keep this one alive because in
a way they are trying to lay the
groundwork for a possible case to move
against Powell if President Donald Trump
really does uh want to set up a decision
to fire him at some point. They would
need some grounds. They would need some
cause and we have heard the president
and his allies, you just heard uh White
House uh press secretary Caroline Levit
refer to it again, making these
accusations of lavish spending. Uh the
Fed chair is trying to counter all that,
pointing to the fact that look, these
buildings that constitute the Fed
headquarters near the National Mall here
in downtown Washington. They're nearly a
century old and they need extensive
upgrades. They have not been renovated
really since they were constructed in
the 1930s and they need extensive
abatement of lead and asbestous and
other safety upgrades for fire and
ventilation uh purposes, too. But look,
John, this is really far less about a
renovation project. It's really about
whether the Fed chairman will heed the
president's call to lower interest
rates. This is a case that Donald Trump
made in the Oval Office on Wednesday
with Amory Hordern uh right next to him
practically hearing him argue for lower
rates. But right now, the Fed chair is
not ready to bend to the president's
will. He is not prepared to do so. He
wants to see the data. For Donald Trump,
the data are there. He is calling for
this. He sees the European Central Bank
making moves in that direction. He's
also looking at what many are seeing as
uh relatively low or tame inflation,
giving the Fed enough leeway to act. So,
we're going to have to be watching this
very closely uh both on the renovation
front and on the body language when it
comes to interest rates. J
>> Mike Shepard, thank you, sir. Sh, we'll
catch up with you in the next hour.
Joining us now to extend the
conversation, Tobin Marcus of Wolf
Research. Tobin, welcome to the program.
Endgame. Just what is the endgame right
here in Washington?
So, I think the endgame remains to be
determined by the president. I think
that what we're seeing now in terms of
the investigation and the heavy public
criticism of this renovation project is
giving him optionality, which has often
been the approach in this
administration. I think they're trying
to create a legal legal predicate if
they need it. Since the Supreme Court
has made clear that they're not going to
accept a Fed chair firing without cause,
you know, that they're we're seeing a
kind of pretextual effort to establish
cause if the president decides to go
down that road. But I I do not think
that a decision has been made.
>> Well, if a decision hasn't been made
though and he continues to go after Jay
Powell, potentially to give him an
opening to firing. But if he doesn't,
and say we even see the Fed chair come
out and announce at some point between
now and the end of the year a Fed cut,
what kind of damage is being done in
this interim?
I think as long as nothing really
dramatic actually happens, it's not
going to be the kind of thing that
worries markets long term. I think it's
going to, you know, it'll continue to
worry those of us in the policy
community. It's not a great thing to
see. There's definitely a process of uh
kind of politicization going on in terms
of a more overt effort to put pressure
on the Fed. Obviously, it's not
completely insulated from political
pressure. Uh you know, sort of cycle in
and cycle out, but this is clearly more
overt than we typically see. But I don't
think it's going to be something that,
you know, concretely impacts markets if
they don't actually go ahead uh and make
a real attempt to fire him.
>> As Mike Shep was saying, I was in the
Oval Office with the president on
Wednesday. We were questioning him about
this and walking in, I saw the
renovations underway for the Rose Garden
a second time for this president. We've
also seen this president also have cost
overruns when it comes to Air Force One.
Does this argument work for someone who
has also had renovations and cost
overruns?
I think when you're looking at the
renovation project objectively, it's
expensive. It is somewhat overcooked.
I'm sure it has not been executed
perfectly, but to your point, government
renovation projects, government, you
know, projects in general, uh, very
commonly run over cost. Um, so, you
know, again, I think it is it's fairly
clearly pretextual. If they do end up in
litigation over this, like the fact that
it's pretextual doesn't necessarily mean
that it won't work. I I do think there
will be some reluctance from the
conservative majority on the Supreme
Court to second guessess executive
discretion about what constitutes cause.
The kind of legal definitions about what
constitutes cause are are fairly vague
and have not been extensively litigated.
They're these general terms like
inefficiency and and neglect of duty. Um
so again, I think they can make the
case. Uh but it does certainly put those
of us uh in the policy business in an
unusual position of being, you know, uh
experts on on beehive uh costs and and
marble and so forth these days.
>> Tobin, it's true and we all are sort of
wondering how August or July of 2025
became the renovation month where we all
became experts. I'm curious if you
understand why why now why we're getting
this sort of push to get rid of Fed
Chair Jay Powell after there had been a
lot of discussions earlier this year.
The economy is doing okay. We are seeing
a stock market near all-time highs. Do
you have a sense of the timing and the
purpose behind it?
>> Well, look, I think the president has
been pretty clearly frustrated with
Powell for a long time, and this is
something that he has been thinking
about on and off. Uh to your point,
we've had sort of another cycle of this
in uh in April when the speculation
about a possible firing reached kind of
a boiling point and then they they uh
they took down the temperature a little
bit. So, I think the frustration has
never gone away and it's sort of
bubbling to the surface again uh based
on uh on the latest data. I mean, to
your point, the fact that markets are at
all-time highs is something that
President Trump has pointed out as a
reason to cut rates. I think most uh of
the folks in the Fed system would look
at it the opposite way. Uh that that's a
source of, you know, sort of um easy
financial conditions that would would
not necessarily make you think that you
need to cut rates. Uh it is kind of a
murky data picture. I I think the
arguments on both sides are are pretty
real, but I I don't think that Powell's
going to change his position anytime
soon.
>> How much support does President Trump
have in Congress to really go through
with a move like this?
>> I think he has enough support uh to get
a successor confirmed, which is all that
really matters. There's plenty of
concern about this. You have had various
Senate Republicans going on the record
with their concerns over the course of
the past few days, but I don't think
they're going to do anything about it.
I'd be very very very surprised to see
anything like a threatened embargo of a
potential successor if Powell is uh is
ousted. Uh which is really the kind of
point of leverage that they have. I
really do not think anyone's prepared to
cross that bridge. And short of that,
you know, he he uh referenced the
enthusiastic reception he got from House
conservatives when floating this
possibility the other day. Uh again, the
sort of senators and moderates are more
apprehensive. Uh but all of them, I
think, are are hoping for an outcome
rather than trying to effectuate it.
Tybin Marcus of Wolf Research. Tybin,
thank you, sir. You're right to keep
pointing out all-time highs in the
equity market. I wonder how long they'll
last if you do fire the Fed share.
>> It depends on whether the market
responds pretty much the way we imagine
that he would that it would, which is a
weaker dollar and higher long-term
yields because essentially this would
undermine some of the long institutional
belief that yes, the Fed is independent.
You know, is that part of the reason why
President Trump is reluctant to really
take this ultimate step?
>> Market's not pushing back yet, though,
is it? And we've talked about this a few
times with regards to trade as well. Is
that a market ignoring some of these
policy threats or endorsing them? And
the president reflected on that to start
the week, suggesting that maybe it's an
endorsement of some of these threats.
>> Or is it a market that's had its face
ripped off 15 million times and is sick
of getting whipside by a head headline
that gets reversed to prove a point? So,
they're not going to even do it. So,
ultimately, President Trump is playing
chicken with a market that doesn't want
to respond too soon. It sets up a pretty
uncomfortable situation.
>> That right there is the sound of
exhaustion going into the weekend. Just
exhausted by some of these stories. Not
just you, I think all of us. Coming up
on the program, Jason Pas of City on
another strong quarter for Netflix.
Plus, Yhira with your morning movers and
an update on the race to power AI.
[Music]
Later on this morning, in about 1 hour
and 30 minutes time, a mustwatch
conversation. Governor Waller, 8:00 a.m.
Eastern time, right here live and
exclusive on Bloomberg Surveillance
making the case for a 25 basis point
rate cut. The big push starts right now,
>> saying that the risk to the labor market
is clearly more of a concern to him than
any kind of potential prolonged
inflationary wave coming from tariffs.
Is this the shadow Fed chair? How much
clout does this type of proclamation
have on the broader committee?
>> I'm not sure he'd describe himself as
that.
>> I can guarantee he will,
>> but others might in the months to come.
Equity futures on the S&P 500 just about
positive. Welcome to the program. Two
days of gains into Friday going into the
weekend at record highs on the NASDAQ
100 just about positive. Two unchanged
so far this morning with three hours
until the opening bell. Let's get you
some morning moves and cross over to
Yhira. Hey yhra.
>> Hi John. It was another blowout quarter
for Netflix, but as you can see, shares
are lower by 1.6%. That's because the
stock has had a huge runup in the past
year, but as I said, another exceptional
quarter. Profits, revenue, and forecast
all topped expectations. And given its
international presence, a weaker dollar
helped contribute to that. It's also
part of the reason why it expects net
income to to exceed $10 billion for for
the first time ever this year. So quite
the milestone for the streamer. And we
move on to Circle. Those shares are up
2% after Congress handed the crypto
industry a big win. Lawmakers passed the
first federal law to regulate stable
coins, the digital tokens tied to the
dollar. And Circle is one of the
companies that issues those coins. And
there is no shortage of deals in the
energy space due to the AI boom. And
here is the latest. It involves Talon
Energy, which is up nearly 15% after
announcing a $3.8 billion purchase of
two major natural gas plants in
Pennsylvania and Ohio. This is as we see
the biggest surge in electricity demand
due to AI in decades. And these gas
power plants are able to provide that
aroundthe-clock power needed to power
them. John
>> Yhira, thank you. More from Yhira in the
next hour on our radar this morning. One
of our top stories, Fed Governor Chris
Waller saying the central bank should
cut rates this month. Waller saying the
labor market is quote on the edge and
policy makers should not wait until it
worsens. This is a key a forceful
argument against a key line coming out
of the Federal Reserve over the past few
months. The economy is solid and we can
wait. Here's a gentleman that's telling
you the economy is no longer solid. he's
putting to the private payrolls when he
says you look under the hood you can see
that any kind of increase some of the
payrolls number has come from uh public
sector hiring and it doesn't speak to
the kind of strength that would lead to
wage increases that's a key component of
any kind of inflationary wave the reason
why we're focusing on him I think might
be more interesting than even his
argument which is he is considered the
dark horse to be the next Fed chair is
his view taking disproportionate clout
when it comes to swaying other members
especially especially with some of the
job boning coming uh from the White
House.
>> What is so interesting about his case
right now is that of course he is a name
that continuously gets called upon
potentially that can become Fed chair.
But this is someone who because he is
making an economic case and he's not
just throwing, you know, spaghetti at
the wall in terms of how bad Jalow is
for a number of things like renovations.
He's making an economic case which means
he's credible inside the institution.
He's credible to economic voices at the
White House and he's credible most
importantly to the market.
>> But the same thing from Neil Data of
Renmack that if you want lower rates,
that's the guy that can help affect the
situation because he's inside the
institution giving you a credible
economic argument to lower interest
rates and he can bring the committee
with him. You select someone from the
outside to your point Anie that quest
that mission is a whole lot harder.
>> If you have someone who's quoting the
Beige book as a justification to cut
rates, get on board. If you have someone
who's saying you need to overhaul the
whole institution and really this is
just a total bungle bungled uh
organization that has caused inflation
to take off. Well, it's a little bit of
a harder cell and lacks the same kind of
credibility.
>> We'll give Governor Wallace some time to
present his argument a little bit later
this morning. Again, don't watch don't
miss that at 8:00 a.m. Eastern time. A
mustwatch conversation. Let's turn to
this story. The EU hitting Russia with a
fresh round of sanctions over its war in
Ukraine. the EU cutting off 20
additional Russian banks from
international payment systems and
setting a tight curb on fuel made from
Russian crude. So
>> this goes back to the oil price cap and
they proposed moving it from $60 a
barrel to 45. They ended on $48 a
barrel. What I would note is that this
is an important development and it's
really being welcomed by Ukraine in
terms of continuing the pressure on
Russia. But the start of the year, I
can't get over this report for the
Center for Research on Energy and Clean
Air. The EU is spending more money on
Russian fossil fuels that they
continuously import than they are on
financial aid to Ukraine. And the EU has
yet to completely end its reliance on
Russian oil and gas. They're going to do
that not this year, not next year. The
aim is for 2027.
>> When you break it down that like that,
the whole thing sounds absolutely
ridiculous for all the calls of the
Europeans to get the United States to
put pressure on the Russians. When you
hear it broken down the way you just
did, it's just absolute nonsense.
>> It sort of points to the moral high
ground. Who really has it in terms of
taking a hard line on Russia? And at
this point, how much clout does Europe
have even with each other to get each
other on board to execute some of these
potential policies.
>> That's the latest on the war between
Russia and Ukraine. I wanted to squeeze
this story in. Wells Fargo suspending
travel to China after one of its top
traders was blocked from leaving the
country. The US embassy said it raised
the case with Chinese authorities.
China's foreign ministry said it wasn't
familiar with the situation.
>> Meanwhile, Wells Fargo has banned all
travel, at least temporarily, for its
employees. What a shocker. This really
just goes to underscore why it is so
difficult for uh multinationals in the
United States to do business in China.
And increasingly so, especially if any
individual over in that country is used
as a pawn in any kind of escalating
trade war. I know that John, you've been
eager to get to China. I just wonder if
that's going to be, you know,
potentially something that hampers that.
>> I don't think John will be going to
China anytime soon, but China's use of
exit bans has been this point of
contention between Beijing and
Washington. The State Department
repeatedly advises citizens to
reconsider travel to China based on what
it calls the arbitrary enforcement of
local laws, including what happens with
exit bans. And this is why you see a
number of banks and companies really
scale down how much they want to send
travelers over to China.
>> It's getting harder and harder to do
business in both countries at the
moment. Let's put it that way. Let's
turn to the earnings. Netflix reporting
better than expected second quarter
results and raising its fullear
forecast. Jason Basin of City has a
neutral rating and a 1250 price target
on Netflix. And he joins us now for
more. Jason, welcome to the program.
Sir, decent numbers, stocks a little bit
lower in the pre-market. Do you think
that's just a reflection of what a
strong rally we've had year to date of
something like 40% plus?
>> I think it's a little bit the rally and
a little bit the source of the beat was
really the weaker US dollar. So it's
sort of viewed as a sort of lowquality
beat if you want to think about it that
way.
>> So if you strip out the FX tailwind,
Jason, what's left
>> in terms of
the quarter?
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mean look, they they had
decent pricing growth. They had decent
subgrowth. I mean, they're definitely
growing in ways other than a weaker US
dollar. My only point is the source of
the beat was primarily related to the
weaker dollar.
>> It goes to the question of how high the
bar is at this point for the earnings,
especially given the fact, as John
mentioned, it's up more than 42% so far
year to date. I just wonder if this is
still a growth stock in the same kind of
way, given that they no longer provide
subscriber information and they're
really facing off with pretty
significant penetration.
>> Yeah. No, I I agree with you. I mean, if
I went back 18 months ago, the bull case
on Netflix was a 25 multiple on 25
earnings, and now the bull case is a 40
multiple on 2027 earnings, uh, which the
bulls would argue is 1,600 a share. The
question is why so much multiple
expansion from 25 times to 40 times. Um,
I would argue what Netflix has benefited
from is really sort of a safe haven
status uh from PMs. They look at
Netflix, they say there's no AI risk,
there's no recession risk, there's no
government intervention, there's no
tariff risk. So if you owned one of
these big mega cap companies and you go
look for a safe harbor, Netflix checks
all those boxes and that's why you've
seen the multiple expansion. The
question going forward is can it hold
this multiple? And if you look at street
numbers and even the company's leaked
memo, it talks about um topline growth
decelerating over the next four years.
So that's the real question. And can the
multiple hold at this elevated level if
the top line is going to decelerate
price going forward?
>> There's a deeper economic question
underpinning this as well, which is do
they have the power to raise prices
substantially given the fact that a lot
of people are concerned about the
trajectory for the average consumer? Do
you get the sense that people are
overestimating their ability to keep
charging us more and more?
Uh when I do the math on Netflix, their
price per consumed minute sits right on
top of linear television. Um so the
threshold question is can they continue
to grow engagement? Um the troubling
thing that that is beginning to happen
and it came up over and over again on
the earnings call last night is is
Netflix is sort of winning the battle
against pay TV as pay TV declines. It is
losing the war uh relative to consumers
consumption of video. And and the best
example of this is over the last 18
months, Netflix and YouTube were at par
of 8% of US uh viewing share. Um Netflix
is still eight. They've been flat. And
yet YouTube has gone from 8% share to
12. And so what consumers are saying is
they they want to embrace these sort of
open platforms, lean into the creator
economy, um where Netflix really isn't
participating. And that that's the
challenge. If they don't get their share
of viewing up, then it's going to be
difficult to continue to increase
prices. How could they participate in
that space?
>> Well, there's sort of the the half step
and then there's the full step, right?
The half step would be to go into some
of the most iconic uh creators on
YouTube and give them their own show on
Netflix, which is produced by Netflix,
green lit by Netflix. Um, that's sort of
the half step. The full step would be
just to go in in a more fullthroated way
and set up a parallel business very
similar to YouTube where you just sort
of open up your platform. You let people
upload videos to it and then there's all
sorts of questions around does that
dilute the Netflix brand? Is that you
know content highquality enough? Um and
so th those are strategic questions that
Netflix is going to have to answer.
>> And how would they make money in that
case? Would it just be through
traditional advertising?
>> Well, yeah, exactly. I mean, if you if
you look at YouTube's, you know, payout,
it runs about roughly half of all the
revenue that comes in is paid out to the
creators. Um, it's not totally obvious
to me that that would be dilutive to
Netflix's margins. Um, if you look at
their cost of goods um, for all the
content that they produce, it's sort of
in that same zip code.
>> Jason Basi. Jason, appreciate you
jumping on to catch up with us. Thank
you, sir. Stock is lower in the
pre-market by close to 2% after a major
rally so far today. what he was just
talking about is fascinating. How
quickly YouTube has gained against
Netflix. And I wonder how much this is
just that people's attention spans are
really low,
>> getting shorter and shorter.
>> And so if you have some kind of cute
little clip that's really
attentiongrabbing that's generated
specifically for you.
>> Speaking from experience, aren't you?
>> That you can handle it for about 2
minutes.
>> Just sit there scrolling
>> and you don't fall asleep.
>> I want to see your explorer page.
>> Please don't. Can you imagine?
>> Yeah, that's me.
>> Just sort of golf clips on my end. Just
sort of sit there scrolling. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Then they filter tennis in. If you watch
it for too long, all you get is tennis.
Just like that. I know. It sort of
reminds you of your bad habits in real
time.
>> Sports apparently. We're down about 1.7%
on Netflix. You haven't shared your bad.
I don't know what you're looking at.
>> Mine is rehabilitation of of abandoned
pets.
>> Okay. That's You do that in the morning
or at night.
>> Let's move on.
>> Okay. All right. That sounds fine. Let's
give you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning. Find something new out
every single day. Here's your Polo brief
with Lizzie Burden. Hey, Lizzy.
>> Hey, John. President Trump authorized
the Justice Department to seek the
release of grand jury testimony in the
Jeffrey Epstein case. The move came
after the Wall Street Journal published
a story alleging that Trump sent a
suggestive letter to Epstein for his
birthday. Trump called the accusations
fake, and it's unclear whether the
testimony, which is typically kept
secret, will be released. Elsewhere,
Burberry shares are getting a boost in
London trading. The luxury fashion house
reporting a smaller thanex expected
decline in comparable sales. It also saw
better thanex expected growth in its
America's segment. And Apple is losing
more top talent. Sources telling us here
at Bloomberg that Meta hired a pair of
key AI researchers who work for the
iPhone makers super intelligence labs
team. Earlier this week, Zuckerberg
posted on threads that Meta would invest
hundreds of billions of dollars on
advanced AI. And that should be my
brief. John.
>> Hey Lizzy, thank you. More from Lizzie
in about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, Governor Waller pushing for a
rate cut.
>> I believe it makes sense to cut the
FOMC's policy rate by 25 basis points 2
weeks from now. And looking to later
this year, I would support even further
25 basis point cuts to move policy
towards neutral.
>> Up next on the program, Henry McVey of
KKR live from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
The president up early going after
chairman pound once again. Here's the
quote from this post this morning. Too
late in the Fed. Choking out the housing
market and their high rate makes it
difficult for people, especially the
young, to buy a house. goes on to say,
"He is truly one of my worst
appointments." Some acknowledgement of
the fact that he did appoint him to be
Fed chair.
>> Yeah, it does raise a question of how
he's going to avoid making that type of
what he would view as a mistake going
forward in his next Fed selection. How
could he ensure that if they're looking
at the economic data? And that really is
the driving factor.
>> That line is standing out to me. He's
truly one of my worst appointments
because on Wednesday, the president
said, "Who appointed this guy?" and then
Joe Biden reappointed him pretty much
glossing over the fact that actually it
was Trump and his administration that
first gave Powell that job. So here is a
little bit of introspective looking from
the president of the United States
saying I actually put him there and it
wasn't a good decision.
>> If you are just joining us welcome to
the program. Some division emerging at
the Federal Reserve under Sanders this
morning. Governor Waller pushing for a
rate cut.
I believe it makes sense to cut the
FOMC's policy rate by 25 basis points
two weeks from now. And looking to later
this year, if, as I expect, underlying
inflation remains in check with headline
inflation data reporting modest but
temporary increases from infl uh tariffs
and the economy continues to grow
slowly, I would support even further 25
basis point cuts to move policy towards
neutral.
>> Here's the latest this morning. Federal
Reserve Governor Christopher Waller
pushing for rate cuts. Henry McVey of
KKR writing a following. Our glass still
half full. Thinking is that attractive
financial conditions, a global easing
cycle, and ongoing productivity gains
will continue to drive this cycle both
further and longer that many people
think. I'm pleased to say that Henry
joins us in the studio. Henry, good
morning. Good to see you.
>> Great to see you. Thanks for having me
in.
>> Thanks for being here. Let's talk about
the price of the story. You say markets
are reasonably valued and not
overvalued. What's the difference
between the two? So I think what we've
seen over the the years is that the
quality of the S&P has actually
improved, right? You cut taxes,
corporate taxes went from 31 to 21. So
there's more free cash flow. The second
is is that the index has moved to be
more towards services companies that
have a higher return on capital and then
they have higher margins. So I think
what we've seen this whole rally has
been fought for if you go back we were
up 55% the last 2 and 1/2 years and
generally there's been a lot of noise
out there and so people have not gotten
fully invested. Um our view is is that
the cycle will go on. This is like the
'9s and the 60s where you have a
productivity driven cycle. They last
longer. 2022 was like 1994 where the
bond market sold off. People moved to
the sidelines. You really wanted to buy
that 1995 and it ran for another 5
years. We think that's very similar.
Productivity driven cycles, uh, they
just act differently, right? Most people
would say ISM's been below 50 for 26 out
of 27 months and we haven't had a
recession. There's something different
going on and we've seen this one or two
other decades. We own 200 companies
around the world. We've got lots of
different data points on how corporates
are functioning. And when COVID hit,
what they did is they really focused on
automation and digitization. We were
talking about this a little bit before.
and that spending is is yielding really
good results. I don't actually think
we've had the AI boom uh flow through
the data yet. And so, um that's, you
know, I think you have to keep that in
check, but I think that could be a
little more addition to this productiv
productivity driven cycle that we've
seen. It's largely in the US. I mean, I
I travel all around the world. We've got
24 offices. Um, but most CEOs today need
for competitive reasons to invest in
technology and they're squeezing more
out of their um out of their business
and their cash flow.
>> If you have this huge investment boom,
you have a huge technology cycle and you
have consumers that are hanging in
there. We just saw that with retail
sales. What gives you confidence that
inflation is going to come down enough
over the long term to lead to a global
easing cycle?
>> Yeah, so this is a great question. My I
actually view we've been talking about
it KKR this higher resting heart rate
for inflation this time. I actually the
the Fed has told us they're going to
miss their mandate for seven years in a
row. I bet there very few of your your
viewers that actually were investing
when they missed it seven years in a
row. So I actually don't think in the US
it's going to come down. What's
different the global easing cycle we
track the top 25 central banks around
the world and what they're doing. In
2022 84% of them were raising rates.
Today only eight are. So they're they're
starting to ease. This cycle was
actually led by the ECB. It's the first
time we actually had the ECB out in
front of the the Fed. So I think
inflation will stay stickier here than
in other places of the world. But you
have to look at it on a global basis.
And one other point I would say is is
that when I started doing financial
services and macro, uh the Fed's balance
sheet was about 6% of GDP. Then it went
to 34% um during CO and and then uh it's
back down to 22 to 24%. That's still a
huge number. That's that's a multiple of
four versus nor normal and that money is
sitting on the sidelines and it is
particularly in the insurance arena that
money needs to get invested to make uh
the the retirees actually achieve their
return. So the credit markets this cycle
you have less bank deleveraging you got
higher quality high yield and then
you've got this kind of tsunami of money
that needs to get invested. One of the
things that I I love about our platform
is we can look across relative value
across the capital structure and the and
what you see it changes by day in terms
of where there's value in credit. But
overall it's behaved incredibly uh m
much more uh benign this cycle than in
the prior cycles
>> and the higher yields has led a lot of
people to say this is the golden era for
credit particularly private credit and
moving away from private equity. and
we've seen some real concern about exits
not coming to the four and now
universities selling some of their PE
holdings for liquidity.
Why do you push back against the idea
that this really could lead to some sort
of material weakening in the base of
your original business?
>> Yeah. So what I would say is one of the
reasons in in 2006 and 2007 KKR probably
overdeployed a little bit. um you have
to have linear pacing when you do
private equity. This year in 21 22 and
23 we did kind of a quarter a quarter a
quarter of the fund. That's the way you
never have to make a a big bet. What the
industry did is it probably in general
overinvested in 21 and early 22. So
they're going to have to work that out.
Um so I I do think we've we've led to
some differentiated outcomes. I think
for the industry though, what you're
starting to see right now as
monetizations pick up a little bit, the
IPO markets opening um over time and
you've seen this real shift in in our
focus. This is a world where you're
going to make more private equity kind
of make your own luck through
operational improvement, corporate
carveouts, public to privates. I think
there'll be less that vintage where many
of you in private equity were going
private to private investments. I don't
think those deals will perform as well.
We certainly um one of the reasons I
have a job is we we had made that
mistake in 2006 and 7 and I think the
industry will catch up uh to where we
are uh after this latest latest cycle.
So I'm I'm not as for overall I
acknowledge there was over deployment
for the industry in 21 and 22. I don't
think we're suffering from that and in
general what I would say is that over
time when you if you're a long-term
investor private equity has delivered
about 4 to 500 basis points better than
than most public equity markets. We just
have about a minute. America versus
Europe. Yeah.
>> Which do you prefer? And it's because
you don't believe in American
exceptionalism.
>> Uh I think actually I think that what
we're seeing in both regions is are
they're going to perform. The US has
today has better companies. What the
sentiment coming out of Davos was so
negative on Europe. If they just did
anything pro I mean you guys reported on
this. If anything went well uh they
delivered. Interestingly Europe has
actually been one of our best performing
regions. a lot of really good
entrepreneurs, a lot of uh a lot of
stuff in infrastructure that's done
well. Huh.
>> What keeping it's about
>> I think where you should watch I think
defense stocks going to do well there. I
think in uh that uh financial services
is going to do well and watch some of
the smaller tech companies. Um but over
time it's all about productivity. We've
been saying that for years. Continue to
focus on that. Happy to come back and
beat the drum on that. So happy Friday
to you all.
>> Look forward to seeing you again.
Perfect wrap for the conversation, sir.
>> Sounds good.
>> You're a professional. Thank you. Henry
Vay there of KKR. a range of issues to
work through. That wall of money though
is key
>> and that's one reason why a lot of
people including Mike Wilson who is
colored as this huge bear on Wall Street
has actually turned really positive and
says it's the early stages as he was
talking to you guys yesterday of some
sort of bull market.
>> The amount of money that's been invested
right now, you were talking about that
briefly is unbelievable. A quote that
stands out for me in the last 12 months
or so came from the Alphabet CEO. The
biggest risk right now for them is
underinvesting and not overinvesting.
They see some of these themes, these
trends, the technological advancements
of the last several years as an
existential risk to their companies. And
I see think you see that not in the
words, not just in the words of the
Alphabet CEO, but also in the actions of
the Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg in the past
few months.
>> And when you talk to executives across
corporate America, it's not just the big
tech CEOs that are talking about this.
It's everyone. It's even the retailers.
It's the fast food players. It's just
this idea you need to be in on a game
that is not going away.
>> The conversation continues on Bloomberg
Surveillance. Coming up next and
Greenhouse of Solace Alternative Asset
Management, Monica Aguero of Morgan
Stanley, the SEC chair, Paul Atkins, and
Sarah Malik of New. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance is up next.
[Music]
The underlying economy remains
relatively strong. There is pentup
demand in the economy.
>> There's a lot of fragmentation in this
US consumer right now.
>> Knowing consumer has been in trouble for
quite some time.
>> I think we'll see that better read
probably in August and September on
really the true health of the consumer.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. The second
hour of Bloomberg surveillance starts
right now. And your scores look like
this. Alltime highs heading into the
weekend in the equity market at the
moment. We're positive by not even a
tenth of 1% just about unchanged on the
NASDAQ 100. Later on this morning, 60
minutes from now, mustwatch
conversation. the Fed Governor
Christopher Waller on this program after
making the argument for a 25 basis point
rate reduction
>> and a 25 basis point reduction this
month and that is out of consensus. He
is one of two members, the other Mickey
Bowman has suggested she'd be open to
this. But if you listen to the rhetoric
of a growing number of other potential
of other Fed chairs, it also signals a
potential openness to this type of rate
cut given the fact there hasn't been the
same kind of growth in the labor market
that many of them would like to see.
>> He is making a credible argument for
lower interest rates which will be music
to the ears of this guy right here, the
president of the United States, writing
just moments ago, too late in the Fed
are choking down the housing market with
their high rates.
>> And the president saying that J Pal is
one of his worst appointments. He's
clearly frustrated. He's going after the
renovations at the Fed. He continuously
talks about how the the rate needs to
come down. But Jonathan, the words you
use just there, credible. When you have
Governor Waller coming out and listing
the economic reasons why he thinks there
should be a Fed rate cut, he is not only
credible to the institution of the Fed.
He's making arguments when he talks
about tariffs being only a one-off
increase in price levels. That's
credibility to the economic advisers in
the White House. And he's credible right
now to the markets. consequences and
risks. You've been focused on this for
quite a while. Just to reflect on the
100 basis points of easing at the back
end of last year and what happened at
the long end of the curve when they did
that, yields went up, not down. Mortgage
rates were higher, not lower. And that's
going to be an interesting piece of the
conversation later this morning.
>> To take a phrase that you've said quite
a bit about other potential policy
changes, the market has a vote. And this
to me really is the ultimate question.
Did we get a sense of what that vote
would look like earlier this week when
President Trump did suggest that he was
ready to fire fire Powell or at least
that it was reported that he had drafted
even a letter to do so? It just raises a
question. Is the market in a place to
understand that yes, it is an
appropriate time to cut rates by 50
basis points this year? And the answer
is yes, that's the amazing thing. But
how much more do you ultimately end up
seeing? The president talked about the
fact at least when I was in the Oval
Office about it was concepts concepts of
a plan of potentially firing Jay Powell
and he was spitfiring basically
Republicans um about potentially doing
this but asked yesterday Governor Waller
he was asked has Trump or anyone in the
Trump administration asked you
potentially to take that job? Nope. Next
question. He doesn't want to be caught
in the politics of this and he's
squarely focused on the economic
reasoning behind his thesis of cutting
fed rates.
>> That specific question might be one we
avoid a little bit later this morning.
One word answers aren't great for TV,
are they? Just sort of nope.
>> Are you on?
>> Are you the shadow Fed chair? Nope.
>> Have you talked to President Trump?
Nope. Are you planning on being the next
bed chairman pal in the news conference?
Can you be fired?
>> Nope.
>> Well, there you go. This sets off the
battle. It is going to be an interesting
point though. Who is going to be
watching this interview?
>> Bonnie this morning. Higher by lower by
two basis points on a 2-year. On a 10
year, we're down by two basis points to
443.
Coming up this hour, Dan Greenhouse of
Solace Alternative Asset Management as
stocks set new highs. Monica Agüero of
Morgan Stanley as Fed chair J Pal
addresses White House criticism and SEC
chair Paul Atkins on a victory for the
crypto industry. We begin this hour with
stock steady following a week of
stronger than expected economic data.
Dan Greenhouse of Solace Alternative
Asset Management writing, "Certainly
everyone thinks the coast is all clear,
but I'd like to see the July and August
data before drinking my own Kool-Aid."
Dan joins us now for more. Dan, good
morning.
>> Good morning to you, sir. Do you like
the data you've seen so far?
>> Yes, of course. And I think um I tried
to get the chart, but but apparently we
couldn't get it in time, but Anna Wong
uh from Bloomberg Economics has a
terrific chart showing uh the Bloomberg
uh surprise indices.
>> I'll get Bobby in the control room to
bring it up.
>> Jimmy, I think it was Jimmy who I have
made famous despite not existing. Um but
but yes, but but the point of the of the
indices are that you see inflation
surprise indices are obviously coming in
less than expected. growth indices are
coming in above expectations and I think
more than anything else that explains
the situation which we find ourselves
and when people ask TV investors
whomever why are equity markets at a
high why are credit spreads as tight
that's as good an answer as anything
that you could give
>> the labor market's on the edge according
to Governor Waller on the FOMC do you
think the labor market's on the edge
>> I don't know if I'd say it's on the edge
but you've clearly seen a deceleration
he mentioned I mean his speech is for
those of us who have been talking about
the likelihood of a rate cut while not
positioning ourselves for Fed chair,
although I would take the job
admittedly. Um, Waller's speech is
everything that we've been talking about
and he mentions how private sector job
growth has decelerated last month and
printed in the double digits and you
want to be ahead of of this weakness and
I think on the labor market front that's
that's a correct argument to make. I've
been making it. I'm glad to see him
doing so and I think it's the correct
one.
>> The ironic thing is that the committee
believes in cutting rates by 50 basis
points. That's the midpoint of the
committee. Does it matter if they do it
this month or if they do it in
September? Does it matter if they do it
one time or two times? If it's 50 basis
points, how much of a consequence to
John's point does this have for longer
term inflation?
>> I always appreciate you an answer asking
questions that you know the answer to.
Uh the answer is no. It one month, two
months, three months here or there
doesn't matter.
>> I don't know. Maybe it matters
tremendously to you, but carry on.
>> I don't think it matters and I'd be
hardressed.
>> They're least favorites.
>> Well,
>> all right. Let's move on. But like so so
the point is the direction of travel. So
we know I would argue that your
overunder over the next uh 12 months
let's say is four 100 basis points of
reductions to get yourself into the
mid3s by next summer. Something like
that. That seems to me to be entirely
justified. And in Waller's Q&A yesterday
he got asked about a a long cycle so to
speak. So whenever you talk about
interest rate reductions it becomes 200
300 B. His point in the Q&A was simply
let's just get the process started here.
I think we're restrictive. We shouldn't
be restrictive. And I think that's the
argument I'm making. Again, I think you
can get four reductions by next summer.
But the point is that I think rates are
too high at this point. You've seen some
deceleration. I don't believe tariffs,
the tariff and inflation story, which he
touched on. And so when you put that all
together, the basis is there. The
context is there for for some rate
reductions. You talked a little bit
about how there is no true political
independence on the Federal Reserve,
which is a pretty provocative statement
given that a lot of people have spent a
lot of time, including myself, talking
about what the loss of political uh
independence would mean for the Fed and
what kind of risk premium that would
really uh charge on US assets. Why do
you reject this notion that this is even
something that we should really be
spending so much time on?
>> It's not that I reject that the central
bank is independent, because clearly it
is. What I what I reject is the idea
that somehow it's completely devoid of
of uh of politics. The the chair is
obviously appointed by the president.
The board is appointed by the president,
approved by the Senate famously during
the GFC. Uh the Fed chair and the
Treasury Secretary were having lunch
every day uh or at least once a week.
That a tradition that has continued as I
understand it. So I my point is just
let's not live in a fairy tale land
where politics plays no role. Do I think
Jay Powell is holding rates steady and
coercing the group the the the board to
do so for politics? No, I don't. Do I
think that politics plays a role in in
the central bank? Yes, I do. So, but but
within that context, I do hope as the
all bank CEOs have articulated and I
imagine many people who sit my street in
my seat have articulated, I do hope that
the existing amount of central bank
independence that we have uh persists
and I would point um to to the recent
Supreme Court cases. There is a push for
everyone in the executive branch to be
answerable to the president. A view that
I largely ascribe to. Two court cases,
Will Cox and and SA law obviously have
played into this idea that the head of
the CP this consumer financial
protection board, the FHFA, etc. are
fireable by the president. But as many
people know that the Supreme Court seems
to have carved out the Fed chair from
that from that grouping owing to its
historical um roots in the first and
second bank of the United States. I'm
not sure if a case came to the United
States that would hold up a came to the
Supreme Court that would hold up but at
least for now uh that that seems to be
in place. To your point though on Fed
independence, JP Morgan put out a note
yesterday talking about the myth of this
independence and if J Pal is fired or
step down or even if we're thinking
about just who Trump is going to appoint
next, who do you think is actually
credible given the fact we've seen
people change their tone to really try
to ingratiate themselves to what the
president wants to see?
>> I don't think there's any doubt that the
most credible of the people being
discussed is Christopher Waller. He is
known by the street. uh he was director
of research at the Federal Reserve,
became a governor and was instantly
immediately thought of as a thought
leader on on the board and and correctly
so and remains today. He is, as I
mentioned earlier, articulating the most
cogent and I would argue accurate case
for why rates can and should come down.
I think if he was appointed Federal
Reserve chair next year, I don't think
the street would have any problem with
that at all.
>> So markets wouldn't push back. But what
about the two Kevin? I don't think the
markets would push back per se. It's not
as if the, you know, it's not as if
you're making um the hamburger, the the
head of the Federal Reserve. I mean,
these are all qualified, credible
individuals. Obviously, there's a
political component to to them uh
varying up and down the spectrum. I I I
don't think the market would necessarily
freak out. That said, if you were able
to and successfully fired the Fed chair
for the stated reason that interest
rates should be lower and someone came
in and immediately cut by 50 or 75 basis
points, we might be having a different
conversation. But to the extent that a
president of the United States wants
lower interest rates, I don't think
that's necessarily front page news.
>> And this market has hardly blinked. In
fact, when we had the reports out about
the firing of the Fed chair, all of
these reports started to drop. He's got
a letter. It's imminent. Markets barely
moved. I thought that price action was
really tame and I found a lot of the
price action to be very tame in the face
of increasing threats coming from the
White House. Why do you think that is?
>> Well, listen, the short term is algo
driven. So I will chalk any short-term
move up to to algorithms and but the
truth is in this conversation the larger
issue with respect to the central bank
is not a a minute an hour move. It's
what happens to Lisa's insinuation
earlier. What happens over time? How
much extra uh compensation do investors
demand for a central bank that they
perceive to be less uh independent?
That's worth 25, 50, whatever it might
be basis points over the long term,
which ultimately increases borrowing
costs for the United States. So, I I
wouldn't look too much into that
short-term move the other day and say,
well, the curve steepened, the dollar
sold off. I'm not saying they're
illegitimate moves or incorrect moves. I
just think the this issue plays out over
a much longer period of time than an
hour.
>> And the answer is more. They want more
compensation for holding US assets
>> and how much is this going to be
expressed in the yield curve. How much
is this going to be expressed through
the currency channels? A lot of people
saying the currency channels are going
to bear the brunt of it which is why the
consensus right now and the most crowded
trade according to the last BML survey
is short dollar.
>> Dan talked about qualifications. It's
not about qualifications about motives
and perceived motives. the perception of
the market of what the motives are of
that individual and if they come from
within the White House given the
pressure that's being put on at the
moment clearly a lot of people in this
market will perceive that individual
having motives that are distinct and
divorced from where the economic data is
and ultimately they'll be following
where the politics are going
>> and given that the motives might be more
political in certain cases than maybe
economic that would be the theory for
markets there would be a concern that it
would allow inflation to pick up steam
on the longer term which is why people
might be more reluctant to buy into
longerterm bonds. That is what people
are looking for in terms of the vote
from the market.
>> That was Lisa answering her own question
from earlier. Dan, there you go.
>> No better question the one you know the
answer to better than yours. Dan
Greenhouse with Solace Alternative Asset
Management. Dan, appreciate it. Thank
you. Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Lizzie Burton.
Hey Lizzie.
>> Hey John. Shares of Chevron and Hess
rising in the pre-market after they were
cleared to move forward with a mega
merger. An arbitration panel dismissed
Exxon's attempt to block the deal. Exxon
had claimed that it had a contractual
right to bid for Hess's assets in
Guyana. And elsewhere, the US House of
Representatives passed a bill to create
a first ever regulatory framework for
stable coins. It introduced federal or
state oversight of dollar linked stable
coins to legitimize the market. The bill
now awaits Senate consideration. And in
sports, round two of the Open
Championship is underway at Port Rush,
Royal Port Rush in Northern Ireland.
Five players from a record five
countries tied for the lead at four
under 67 in the tightest log jam since
1938.
Top ranked players remaining within
striking distance include Scotty
Sheffller, Phil Mikkelson, Rory Mroy,
and defending champion Zandoff Shoffley.
That should be my brief, John.
>> Lizzie, thank you. Appreciate it. The
Open Championship, not the British Open.
The Open Championship. You're very
sensitive about these things. All I know
is that this is what's going up on your
YouTube feed. Just one clip after
another of this. This is an entire
>> very disciplined.
>> Oh yeah. This morning
>> there's nothing on the screen apart from
markets. Okay. Up next, scrutinizing Fed
renovations.
>> I think again this is a good use of
taxpayers time to look into this uh
project that is millions and millions of
dollars over budget. Uh it's for a big
beautiful mansion for the Federal
Chairman Reserve chairman. Markets and
drawings from architects. Up next,
Monica Aguero of Morgan Stanley live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
[Music]
Live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. Just about unchanged this
morning on the S&P 500 and on the
NASDAQ. The focus down in Washington DC
is on this scrutinizing Fed renovations.
>> I don't believe there's a deadline the
president has set uh for Russo, but I
think again this is a good use of
taxpayers time to look into this uh
project that is millions and millions of
dollars over budget. Uh it's for a big
beautiful mansion for the federal
chairman, reserve chairman. It's
completely unnecessary. It's overpriced
and I think it's a good thing the
administration uh led by the president
is looking into it.
>> Here's the latest this morning. Fed
chair J. Pow defending the Fed's
renovation project, writing in a letter
to the director of the office of
management and budget, "We take
seriously the responsibility to be good
stewards of public resources."
Bloomberg's Mike Shepard joins us now
for more. Sheep, is this a serious
pursuit or a distraction in the nation's
capital?
Well, this is a serious pursuit because
ultimately it's not just about the
building renovation at issue in this
letter that Jay Powell sent to the
budget chair, budget chief at the White
House, Russ Vote. It's about interest
rate policy and whether the Fed chair
will actually bend to the president's
will when it comes to lowering interest
rates. We heard Donald Trump just in the
past hour make yet another demand of
Powell and the board to lower interest
rates. There's a meeting coming up at
the end of the month. Uh the president
is now linking uh the Fed's
unwillingness to lower its benchmark
rate to uh tightness in the housing
market. And he's saying that real
Americans are starting to feel this
pain. And he is also pointing to what he
sees as lower inflation, giving the Fed
leeway to do so. And of course, he added
in some of the typical insults that he
has been hurling at Powell uh in recent
weeks. Uh we heard him call uh the Fed
chair a knucklehead uh in the Oval
Office the other day. Today he added
numbumskull to add emphasis. But when it
comes to the building, uh John, this is
really what would be used potentially as
grounds to ou the Fed chair if Donald
Trump decided to actually follow through
with that. They would need grounds to
boot him out of office. they can't just
uh fire him because they don't like his
interest rate policy. The Fed is an
independent body. Uh the board votes on
interest rates. It's not just the Fed
chair. So, they would have to find other
grounds. And you have seen Trump and
Republican allies using this as an
argument gradually to undermine the Fed
chair uh but perhaps create an argument
or grounds to maybe legally move against
Powell if that uh comes to actually uh
happen. in, you know, in coming weeks
and months
>> attempting to build a legal case. Mike
Shepard, thank you, sir. Down in
Washington. Let's talk about the
economic case to lower interest rates.
Governor Waller presented one yesterday
evening. Others have said wait. And
they've said wait because they want
clarity on policy and we haven't had
that yet. And then once they've got the
clarity on policy, they want to wait and
see the pass through to inflation. See
how that builds in the next few months.
We've already gotten a hint particularly
in home goods and appliances in terms of
what the tariffs have done to inflation
in those sectors. Whether it comes away
at the expense of uh people spending
elsewhere is sort of the key question,
especially on the heels of yesterday's
retail sales number that came in pretty
hot.
>> That was decent. Jobless claims were
lower. We've talked about softer PPI,
softer CPI. Let's have this conversation
now. Monica of Morgan Stanley joins us
for more. Monica, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> We've had exemptions, extensions. What
is the effective tariff rate in this
country now compared to where it was at
the start of the year?
>> And now the estimates around 15 to 12%
depending on, you know, how you're
actually counting. Um, which really is
five times the average effective tariff
rate on January 1. And so what we're
really waiting for is this pass through
of inflationary impact. We've
essentially been in this wait and see
period where some folks are saying, see,
the tariffs haven't really had any major
implications. and you've outlined some
of the positive data that we've seen
come in. Um, but we are starting to see
some weakening and some cracks. The
other thing I just want to mention is
that, you know, the dollar is actually
down, you know, about 10% um, from the
beginning of the year. And so that plays
another additional factor in this when
we're thinking about the role of tariffs
in the economy.
>> When it comes to the tariffs, Governor
Waller making the case yesterday they
are a oneoff increase in price levels.
Do you agree?
>> Uh, yes. And we're looking at
idiosyncratic sectoral industrybased
tariffs 100%. But when we're thinking
about the universal tariff shift upward,
you're going to get not just that
one-time cost level shift, but then you
have anticipatory cost passroughs,
right? You have uh the consumer having a
pull forward in demand. All of these
things get the flow of money moving
faster and push up on inflation. Then
you throw into the uh the equation the
dynamic between a lower dollar and
potential tariffs, right? Higher tariff
rates. That means that importers are
going to have to actually pay more. It's
going to be a much higher burden from
them if the dollar is weaker against the
goods that they're bringing in, which
means potentially higher inflation for
the consumer.
>> When it comes to the tariff negotiations
right now, the president is talking
about 10 to 15% for 150 countries or so.
but they are in active negotiations with
a handful of the US biggest trading
partners. When do you expect these deals
to get done?
>> Well, we're supposed to have some
clarity right on August 1st, but we've
seen that continue to, you know, kick
the can. Um, I do think we're going to
get more deals in the ne in the coming
weeks. And so, again, this is going to
be a patchwork and we have to see how it
all pans out. Now, one of the other
interesting things about this is that
just because you're getting a universal
tariff rate of 25% on Japan, only 50% of
the goods that we' be importing from
them are going to be subject to that
25%. Right? When we're thinking about
the total burden to US imports. So when
we're thinking this through, you have to
put that patchwork into effect and
recognize that it's a not just a country
and regional specific risk, but then
there's also sector and industry
specific impacts because we're not going
to be importing the same goods from
Japan that we would from other countries
for example.
>> It's such a complicated picture, which
is a reason why people are struggling to
put it all together, not least of which
is the Fed officials. This idea of who
pays the tariffs is fascinating and your
discussion around the dollar I really
want to focus on. How much does that
allow companies to absorb more of the
hit and the profit margins because they
have such a competitive advantage
overseas and might be gaining business
overseas that actually leads back to
higher profits based on the currency
differential. Yeah, that's a great
question. So when we're thinking that
through, you have to look at who has the
highest percent of revenue exposure to
foreign right uh to foreign customers,
foreign clients, and that's going to be
tech. That's first out of the gate, as
well as materials. And you're looking
at, you know, the materials, energy, and
tech sectors as the potential winners
with having that weaker dollar in the in
this tariff game. Now, if we pivot and
we look to domestic uh concentrated
revenue bases, those are going to be the
industries and sectors that are going to
be the hardest hit because they're going
to have to absorb those those import
costs and a much weaker dollar. When you
put all this together, it seems
reasonable to sort of infer that this is
going to be less of an impact than
people might have believed at the outset
of some of these tariff threats. What
are you watching for that might indicate
that there are prolonged inflationary
forces at play here that could stretch
more than just a couple of months? I
mean, for us, we're looking at how the
consumer is behaving. So, as soon as
people stop going out to eat, that's
going to be your your big red flag,
right? Travel, you know, has been sort
of in flux but positive overall. But
usually it's travel and then
restaurants. And if going out to eat is
the first thing that goes, that's the
the biggest marker that people are
starting to to pull back and move home.
The other thing I just want to um
emphasize here for us when we're
thinking about how to position around
this is not just looking to the
potential winners, you know, like a tech
industry for example, but keeping into
account that we do still expect
inflationary pressures. I think the
debate is really around the magnitude.
How bad could it be like you like you
mentioned Lisa? and really making sure
that you have diversification across not
just the inflationary hedges, right?
Real assets, alternatives, but also, you
know, looking for those winners as well.
>> Monica Aguero of Morgan Stanley. Monica,
appreciate it. It feels like we're the
frog being slowly boiled by all the
tariff headlines, right? Before you know
it, you're at 20 25% effective tariffs
just like that
>> because markets aren't pushing back
because they're seeing all the different
ways that it can be offset in different
pieces. And then all of a sudden, you're
looking at this tariff load. And if we
stop going out to eat, evidently that's
a problem. I will say it's really
expensive to go out to eat, especially
when you add taxes and then tip and it
just becomes sort of
>> getting more and more expensive. I mean,
is it just me? I mean, it's not just
you.
>> It's just like hard to justify.
>> Just the hits keep coming.
>> I mean, and then ordering in and then
deliver Friday. Come on.
>> Okay.
>> Don't cancel date night this early.
>> Lisa's not going out to eat this
weekend.
>> Up next on the program, the chair of the
SEC, Paul Atkins, as the House passes
landmark stable coin legislation. Plus,
we'll catch up with you higher with your
morning movers and a step forward for a
mega crude merger.
[Music]
Making the case for lower rates 30
minutes away. We'll catch up with
Governor Christopher Waller of the
Federal Reserve who yesterday here in
New York City called for a 25 basis
point reduction of Fed funds. Today,
later this morning, he'll articulate
why. We're hearing from the president.
He's got this to say, lower the rate,
too late. The hits keep coming. This
pressure is unrelenting.
>> Yeah. Talking about how President Trump
saying that J. Powell was one of his
worst appointments ever as he really
does push him to lower rates. I assume
that the argument lower the rate too
late has less emphasis in markets than
going through the labor market data and
citing the beige buck on three
occasions.
>> Yeah, that doesn't work on social media,
right?
>> If you look at the June 4th beige book,
>> we'll have a more sophisticated
conversation hopefully later this
morning. Equity futures right now on the
S&P 500 just about unchanged. Likewise
on the NASDAQ with your morning movers.
Here's Yhira. Morning, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. We start with some major news
in the oil space. Take a look at Chevron
and Hess. Both shares are rising after
Hes won its arbitration battle with
Exxon Mobile, clearing the way for
Chevron's 53 billion takeover to finally
move forward. The ruling ends months of
uncertainty tied to Hessa's valuable
stake in the Guyana oil fields, which is
one of the fastest growing oil areas in
the world. So, Chevron really needed
this win in order to justify this deal.
And here's another big winner from all
the volatility we saw in the second
quarter. Take a look at Interactive
Broker. Shares are up 5 1.5% after the
online brokerage posted higher than
expected profit and revenue as trading
volume soared. Commission revenue jumped
27% thanks to more active users. And we
end on 3M chairs. They are also higher.
just reported results and it raised its
profit forecast and beat Wall Street
estimates even while factoring in the
impact of tariff. Shares are up 2.5%.
The maker of Post-it notes now expects
earnings as high as $8 a share this
year. That is 10 cents higher than the
upper end of its previous forecast. But
it's no accident CEO William Brown, who
is fairly new to the role, has been
shifting production and pricing in order
to blunt the impact from those tariffs.
Another American company navigating
these tariffs pretty well. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Talking about
corporate resilience over and over
again. Savvita Subramanu of Bank of
America made that argument so many
times. Don't underestimate corporate
America.
>> They are right now finding a lot of
pathways to absorb some of the costs and
really just do fine. And a lot of this
does have to do with what they're doing
with technology. Really, I can't stress
that enough. When I hear more and more
about it, it really blows me away.
>> That's amazing. We'll get to more on
tech in just a moment. On our radar this
morning, Fetch J. Pal responding to
criticism of a $2.5 billion renovation
project at the Federal Reserve. Pal
writing to the White House, quote, "We
take seriously the responsibility to be
good stewards of public resources."
>> And you can go on the Fed web page now
and look at all the reasons why they say
they need these renovations. Powell is
denying in this letter though to the OM
director about VIP elevators. He defends
the vegetated roofs. I think what stands
out to me on the on the Fed website, and
Lisa's laughing because it all has
become a little bit dramatic and much is
that they say these buildings have not
been comprehensively renovated since
their construction in the 1930s. The
bottom line is Powell's out defending
this because the administration
continues to attack. This is a new line
attacked. First, it was about you should
be lowering interest rates. Now, it's
about that you're over budget when it
comes to these renovations. And they're
trying to at least at minimum undermine
how the public feels about Fed Chair J.
Powell. The pressure keeps coming. The
president again pushing for this morning
for lower interest rates at the Federal
Reserve. Lisa was talking about tech. I
want to talk about Meta continuing to
build its artificial intelligence team.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg,
the social media giant hired two more AI
researchers from Apple after poaching
their former boss from the iPhone maker.
>> Yeah, it looks like Apple's a sitting
duck. I mean, for absolutely everyone in
terms of its talent, especially as it
struggles to really get inroads on the
AI story. This though speaks to the
existential risk that not being at the
forefront of technology is for the likes
of Meta, for the likes of Google, for
the likes of Microsoft. If you don't
have the top talent, that could
potentially sink you, that could own you
later on. And that maybe is the reason
why people are getting a little
concerned about Apple because they are
losing this talent and they haven't made
those inroads.
>> The Alphabet CEO several months ago, we
said it in the last hour, the biggest
risk is underinvesting and not
overinvesting. And they see a lot of
these themes as an existential risk. The
competition isn't just coming from the
tech companies. It's also coming from
across the stack because every single
company could potentially miss out if
they aren't necessarily at the forefront
of whatever trend the consumer is
experiencing with the interface for each
business. And that really is what you're
hearing across uh corporate America.
>> Some of the biggest banks on Wall Street
feeling insecure as well. Goldman Sachs
taking another step to try and keep his
interns and new employees away from
competitors. According to a memo seen by
Bloomberg, the bank is launching a
program to offer applicants a path to
the asset management unit which has a
private market arm.
>> Evidently, the first one didn't work,
which was loyalty pledges. So standing
around being like, we promise we will
not accept a job. This is, you know,
okay, we'll try something else. We'll
give you an opportunity to maybe have a
similar type of job and that could
potentially be the right approach.
>> To the bank's defense, although the
loyalty test was so interesting, it
reminded me of what actually the Trump
administration was doing. what I pledge
allegiance to the Goldman Sachs. Anyway,
what the banks are saying to their
defense is we go out, we spend a
tremendous amount of money going out
finding talent. We are the ones that are
making sure these individuals are
trained. We want to keep them in house
so that now they have a pathway.
>> That's the latest on Wall Street. We've
got a special guest. So, let's get to
him. Congress passing the first federal
legislation to regulate stable coins in
a major win for the crypto market.
joining us now. I'm really pleased to
say for a first time here on Bloomberg
TV on Bloomberg surveillance the SEC
chairman Paul Atkins. Chair Atkins,
welcome to the program, sir. It's good
to see you.
>> Well, good to see you. Thank you very
much for having me.
>> Well, thank you for being here. Before
we get into it, I wanted to offer you
the opportunity, sir, to talk about your
philosophy in this scene versus what
came before you and the difference maybe
between deregulation and just
innovation.
>> Well, well, thank you very much. uh we
are uh out to you know obviously change
uh direction uh at the SEC and I think
we've already done that here in my first
uh two and a half or so months at the
agency but we're moving away from uh of
uh regulation through enforcement and
and uncertainty in the markets
especially with respect to
cryptocurrencies and digital assets in
general and we're looking to set uh firm
uh clear rules of the road for people
who are operating in that environment.
so that innovators can innovate. They
can uh rely on their adviserss to tell
them, you know, which is the right
direction and and how they can build on
solid ground.
>> Regulators though can't step in without
explicit uh action from Congress. So,
when it comes to cryptocurrencies and
the SEC, what actually comes next? What
are your plans?
Well, uh, so even before I got to the
SEC, um, Hester Purse, who's one of the
commissioners and, uh, she used to be my
council when I was, um, a commissioner
back in, uh, 2002 to 2008, uh, was in
charge of a crypto task force uh, that
we're calling it and they are focusing
on uh, uh, making clear rules for the
industry. So, for example, things like
memecoins and and stable coins that uh
was just the subject of the bill that
was uh passed uh yesterday um are not
securities. And before uh that was not
necessarily clear. And so that's an
example of how we're trying to put
people at ease in the marketplace so
that they can innovate and they can uh
move forward with their plans and uh and
not have to look over their shoulder.
When you were talking to reporters
yesterday after the passing of this
legislation, I believe you'll be at the
White House today with the president
when he signs it. You said the SEC is
considering a quote innovative exemption
from regulations to incentivize
tokenization. What does that exactly
mean, innovative exemption? And how long
does this process take?
Well, it'll be an iterative process and
uh right now we are working on uh on
setting forth uh uh uh different uh
things that can again make uh it clear
for uh people in the marketplace, you
know, which way is the is the true north
for them, let's just say, so that they
don't have to worry about falling off
the ditch and, you know, falling into
the ditch um and getting in trouble uh
with the regulators. And so part of that
will be working with um our colleagues
at the other uh regulators and
especially the commodity futures trading
commission. But uh let's just say that
as we go forth and as we interact with
the marketplace, we've had five roundts
now looking uh at various aspects of the
digital asset space. So we are working
hard at uh coming up with guidance and
and rules and and we'll use every tool
in our toolbox to help people um
understand you what is uh you know how
to stay out of trouble. Basically
>> Jensen, one of the big concern is that a
number of the stable coin issuers are
not going to have the sufficient number
of hard currency reserves on hand to
really back those notes in a way that is
as advertised. How are you prepared to
really counter that? Is that something
that's in your list of concerns that the
SEC is going to be monitoring?
>> Well, one thing that I think the the uh
new uh to be signed uh bill into law
makes clear is that these are not
securities and the whole it's the
banking regulators who are going to be
looking after them. And I think that's
appropriate because of the role that
stable coins uh play and I think will
play in the future because part of the
real um uh promise I think of digital of
distributed ledger technology is uh
immediate uh uh payment uh uh as part of
the process of transactions. So
settlement coming down to in effect
almost T plus zero and um and to to do
it on the trade date and that will make
things much more efficient in the
marketplace, save money, reduce risk uh
in our financial system. So this stable
coins are in the realm of the bank
regulators and they will look after uh
to make sure that uh there is uh
adequate and as advertised uh adequate
backing to the stable coins.
>> Chair Atkins uh just sort of switching
gears a little bit. There's been a lot
of discussion around uh Congress and the
president passing legislation that would
open the door for people to take uh
their money from the 401ks and put it
into private assets, in particular
private equity. How do you plan to
oversee and make sure that that's done
in a way that isn't potentially punitive
for people who are retiring at ages
where they need a lot more money for a
lot longer?
Well, on on that issue, uh we've heard a
lot of uh input from both the investors
who want access to uh private uh the
private markets and to those sorts of
products and obviously from the uh
people who are producing uh the products
who uh you know are about to meet that
demand. So, but we have to do it
carefully uh I think because of course
the private markets are a lot different
than the public markets. um their
liquidity is not the same. There are all
sorts of uh things that for people who
are not aware of the rules of the road
uh where they could get hurt. And so,
uh, we will work very closely with our,
um, counterparts at the Department of
Labor who have, uh, oversight over RISA
accounts, uh, to make sure that, uh, you
know, that we have, uh, appropriate
guidelines around these various
products. And they're really for, of
course, long-term investment, especially
private equity and things like that. So
we have to do this in a smart way so
that uh uh individual investors are not
uh inadvertently into something that
they didn't realize what they were
getting into.
>> Well, speaking of 401k retirement plans,
would you allow crypto into retirement
plans? Because the Financial Times is
reporting that we could see an executive
order from the administration as soon as
today allowing alternative investments
into retirement plans.
Well, again, you know, I think that uh
you know, disclosure is key and that
people need to know what they're getting
into. Um so things like that are not for
everybody and um and so especially um in
retirement plans. So we are I I look
forward to whatever may come out uh from
the president as far as direction goes.
But we are uh we we need to address it
because there is a demand um out there
uh for these sorts of products and uh
and the government should not uh stand
as a blocking uh agent uh for those
sorts of things. But we need to enable
it in the proper way with proper
guidelines and and proper disclosures.
Chair Atkins, you run an independent
agency. So does Jay Powell. I would love
to know, are you under any pressure from
this White House? And what would be your
advice to Jay Powell because it seems
like you have a better relationship with
President Trump?
>> Uh, well, I think so. I've been at the
SEC now, this is the third time. Uh, I
was there in the early 90s under Richard
Breeden and Arthur Levit and then again
from 02 to08 and and now here in uh
2025.
So frankly I don't see really any
difference uh in operation from back
then to now. I know there's been a lot
of coverage of that but you know we are
working handinand glove with our
counterparts in the administration and
at the office of management and budget
and um and OIR uh as far as uh talking
to them about uh uh rules and other
things that we are going to be
publishing. So you know keeping them up
to date taking their comments which are
all very good. So I don't see any real
difference frankly um in the ambit of
maneuver that we have um at the agency.
So I look forward to achieving a lot
with uh uh in the time that we have and
because there is so much to do there's
this is what I like to call deferred
maintenance that we have to address and
and so we are moving I think a very
quick pace uh and uh so the rest of this
year I think we'll be uh turnurning
things out and and moving in a different
direction. Hopefully this is a start of
an ongoing conversation. Appreciate your
time, Chair Atkins. Thank you, sir. The
SEC chair, Paul Atkins, there down in
Washington DC. Brilliant question at the
end there addressed by the SEC chair.
>> Well, he says that he has this
relationship that he's had even back in
the day when he used to run the SEC. The
same as in the White House. Doesn't feel
like he's under any sort of pressure.
Obviously, the SEC is an independent
agency just like the Fed is. But Jay
Powell is getting bamboozled every
single day. Two truths just today alone.
You haven't seen that kind of treatment
of Paul Atkins.
>> The pressure keeps coming. Let's give an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Let's cross
over to Lizzie Burton. Hey Lizzy.
>> Hey John. American Express second
quarter earnings beat estimates boyed by
its premium clients. The company's CEO
said it saw record card member spending
and rising demand for its premium
products. Amex affirmed its fullear
revenue growth forecast of 8 to 10%. And
elsewhere, Wells Fargo suspended travel
to China after one of its top trade
financing bankers was blocked from
leaving the country. Sources telling us
here at Bloomberg, an Atlanta based
managing director, who was born in
Shanghai was banned from leaving the
country. Wells Fargo said they're
working on bringing their employee back
to the United States. And WNBA All-Star
Weekend kicks off tonight in
Indianapolis without its star. Indiana
Fever's Caitlyn Clark has announced she
will not be participating in any of the
events after suffering a right groin
injury on Tuesday. Clark has already
missed 11 games this season due to
injury and that should be more brief.
John
>> spent the year beating her up. Lizzy,
thank you. It's brutal watching WNBA.
Seen some of those hits.
>> Yeah, they're pretty wild. And she was
painted as sort of this uh bad character
for getting angry about some of the
stuff. I I have a real soft spot for
her. People find her controversial. She
has single-handedly brought this entire
sport up.
>> Couldn't agree more. Got to protect your
STS
>> 100%.
>> Haven't protected that stout. Up next on
the program, the beginning of a new bull
market. I'm hoping we get a pullback to
some degree. This is what the beginning
of a new bull market looks like. Right.
It's just explosive. It doesn't let
people in, but I really can't see more
than a 5 or 10% correction given the
given what I see now in the landscape.
>> Up next, Sarah Malik of New live from
New York City. You're watching Bloomberg
TV.
[Music]
this week. So far so good. Data has been
okay. Downside surprise on CPI, on PPI,
retail sales decent. Jobless claims
better. Earnings from the big banks on
Wall Street pretty firm. Equity market
at all-time highs. Is there some
fragility building beneath the surface,
particularly in the labor market? That's
an argument a debate we'll have on this
program in about 10 minutes time with
Chris Waller, the governor of the
Federal Reserve. Look out for that
conversation at the top of the hour. In
equities right now, S&P 500 futures
positive by not even a tenth of 1% under
Savannah this morning. The beginning of
a new bull market. I'm hoping we get a
pullback to some degree. I think a lot
of clients are looking for a pullback of
some kind. This is what the beginning of
a new bull market looks like, right?
It's just explosive. it doesn't let
people in, right? The rate of change is
accelerating beyond what you expected.
So, it's just I think the pullbacks will
be short and shallow. Maybe there'll be
another surprise, another test of some
kind that will cause something more
severe. Here's the latest this morning.
Upbeat earnings and growing confidence
in the US economy driving the S&P 500
and the Nasdaq to fresh all-time highs.
Sarah Malik of New writing, "Expect
beaten raises in the second quarter."
Sarah joins us now for more. Sarah,
welcome back to the program. I want to
get to a line from Mike Wilson of Morgan
Stanley. He believes that this is what
the beginning of a new bull market looks
like. Do you agree?
>> Well, I would say that we're in the
middle of a bull market. I think it has
been around for quite a while, but it
has legs to continue for two reasons,
and that's the economy and strong
earnings. Now, there's also a bit of
volatility we need to think about, and
that's because of the drama around the
Fed chair position. But going back to
earnings, which is what you mentioned,
earnings, the bar is low this quarter.
We're expecting four consensus is
expecting 4% revenue growth, 5% earnings
growth. If you look at history, revenues
tend to grow about 7% earnings at 10%.
That's a setup for companies to beat and
raise guidance. And we think that's what
you're going to see and that's what's
going to drive the markets higher in the
short term.
>> That's what we got from some banks this
week. JP Morgan, a good example of that.
JP Morgan came out with a beat and a
raise. The bar for them seemed to be
higher than for others. So when you say
the bar is low, in what sectors? In what
kind of companies?
>> Well, earnings always starts off with
banks and they set the tone. And you're
right, banks had had a nice rally year
to date. They had outperformed versus
the S&P 500. So, the bar was high for
them. We still are seeing strong
earnings even today from companies like
American Express. But the leader of
earnings historically in the US is
technology companies. So, that's what we
need to count on for this cycle. They've
led about twothirds of earnings growth
in the past and they're over 30% of the
S&P 500 as a sector. I think technology
companies driven by artificial
intelligence is going to be where you
get your earnings growth this quarter
and that's what's going to make or break
this earnings cycle.
>> That's on the one hand there is this
feeling that companies are doing really
well and that they are exceeding
expectations. I am wondering how the
rate picture fits in how susceptible
they are to some sort of increase in the
yield on the long end that could
potentially disrupt the story.
Well, first of all, the initial drama
around obviously interest rates and
what's going to happen has a bit to do
with the turmoil around the Fed chair
position. Uh, second of all is when will
the Fed cut interest rates? Our
expectation has been that the Fed will
cut two rates two times this year
starting most likely in September.
They'll do that because there are some
signs that the economy is slowing, but
more importantly, there's signs that
inflation is becoming more benign. And
so I think that's going to be what the
market relies on in terms of optimism
over Fed rate cuts. But we do have to
worry like we did around liberation day
about the longer end of the curve and
what's happening there. But as of right
now, things have calmed down in that
area.
>> Have you been surprised that we haven't
seen more disruption in markets in
particular in equity markets from the
whole discussion around FedEd and
pedits?
>> Well, I think that markets in the end
trade on fundamentals and earning season
and we've had historically beat and
raises for each earning season. Part of
that has happened because consensus has
declined as we've approached earning
season. If you go back to first quarter
earnings at the beginning of the year,
markets expected 12% earnings growth in
the first quarter. By the time we got to
that earning season, consensus was at
6%. Now, as I mentioned, it's at 5% for
earnings growth. So, the setup is there
to be, and that's usually what markets
trade on. Now, the other side of that is
the valuation argument. And I think that
one is real. Markets are trading at a
premium and they need to be able to
deliver these earnings driven by
technology companies to support the
premium valuations of the market.
>> Sarah, how dependent do you think your
call is on lower interest rates? Is this
a market that needs rate reductions?
>> It's a market that would like rate
reductions and the risk around it is
that if the Fed waits for the employment
market to crack, usually the employment
markets crack when a recession starts.
So that would put the Fed behind the
curve and I think that's the a real fear
for the markets is are we going to be
too late with rate cuts when a recession
already starts. Now on the other side of
that, I don't think a recession is
imminent. We saw that this week with
strong retail sales. We're going to hear
companies like American Express talking
about how consumers are still spending.
But we need to be careful of some of
these cracks in inflation data this
week. Both CPI and PPI show that
consumers are becoming more sensitive to
the services and entertainment spending
like airfares and hotels and that goods
prices are increasing. So I think those
rate cuts would help. We're not
dependent on them, but we are concerned
that the Fed may wait too long if
they're looking for that real crack in
the employment market.
>> You're not alone. Sarah Malik there of
New Sarah, thank you. This is something
we'll hear in 5 minutes time when we
speak to Governor Chris Waller. we no
longer have the luxury of waiting.
>> And he's really finding company on the
committee, in particular Mary Dailyaly,
who said that she doesn't want to see
the labor market soften any further. The
idea that Sarah raised that once you
start seeing the cracks, it's too late
because usually that already signals a
recession.
>> We've got a big hour coming up, the
third hour of Bloomberg surveillance
just around the corner. Coming up, Fed
Governor Chris Waller, Dan Ies of
Wedbush, Sarah House of Wells Fargo, and
Sonel Desai of Franklin Templeton from
New York City. You're watching Bloomberg
TV.
[Music]
As long as there's cash in people's
pockets in FOMO, markets are going to
continue to grind.
>> The tailwinds for the market is
basically the speculative frenzy that is
going on right now. A lot of what the
issues are that could result in a
repricing, they're all out there. The
question is, are the markets reflecting
that? The market is expecting lower
rates. This is what the beginning of a
new bull market looks like.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Ann Marie Hordern.
>> Mike Wilson and Morgan Stanley bullish
big time. The start of a new bull market
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. The third
hour of Bloomberg surveillance starts
right now going into the weekend at
alltime highs on the S&P 500. Your
scores look like this. Futures positive
once again up a tenth of 1% on the S&P
and on the NASDAQ.
>> Yeah, a company is showing how well they
are adapting and adjusting and then some
beating. Uh maybe the bar is low given
the fact uh that you haven't expected
this kind of strength, but nonetheless,
they're beating across all sorts of
metrics and people still don't seem that
impressed. I mean, the fact that we're
at alltime highs, great, but the
earnings so far have been pretty awesome
relative to expectations, and a number
of those shares are lower.
>> It's Friday. If it's Thursday,
Wednesday, Tuesday, Monday, you know
what happens? The president's out there
once again calling for guess what? Lower
interest rates. The president already
making the case early this morning.
>> Two truths already this morning. The
last one saying lower the rate too late.
Too late meaning Jay Powell. He
continuously is going after the Federal
Reserve for lowering interest rates. And
we're going to be speaking to someone
who actually also agrees with the
president, but for economic reasons. And
one of the things Governor Waller said
yesterday really goes to this idea that
everyone's been talking about the
uncertainty of tariffs. And he says
tariffs are a oneoff increase in price
levels, which is what gives him
credibility in this race to be the next
Fed chair inside the White House, inside
the institution of the Fed, but also
most importantly to financial markets.
>> If you are just joining us, welcome to
the program. Futures just about positive
on the S&P 500. A big 60 Minutes coming
up here on Bloomberg TV. We'll be joined
by the Fed Governor Chris Waller calling
for a rate cut this month. We'll catch
up with Dan Ies of Wed Bush as big tech
pushes stocks to record highs and Sarah
House of Wells Fargo on the state of the
US consumer. We begin this hour with our
top story making the case for a rate
cut. Fed Governor Chris Waller telling
an audience here in New York. Looking
across the soft and hard data, I get a
picture of a labor market on the edge.
Joining us now here in New York City,
the Federal Reserve Governor Chris
Waller. Governor Waller, good morning.
>> Oh, good morning, Jonathan. Lisa Henry,
nice to be here.
>> It's good to see you, sir. Let's talk
about why we're losing the luxury of
waiting. Have we lost that already?
>> No, I think we haven't. Like I said last
night, the headline numbers for the
labor market, what we're seeing are
okay, but it's like when you get
underneath and start looking at the
data, the private sector is not doing as
well as everybody thinks it is. Like
most of the a half of the employment
growth we saw last month was in the
public sector. And that means the
private sector is not doing particularly
well. So, um I was just joking that uh
you know if you're walking on a lake and
the ice is frozen and it sounds safe,
but when you start hearing cracks, and
that's what I feel like, it's too late
once you go through the ice. So, you've
got to start prepping in advance before
you have that happen.
>> How do you square that with what we've
heard from corporate America so far?
what corporate America has told Lisa
sitting down with Scott Kirby of United
Airlines talking about a rebound in the
second half, what we've heard from the
big banks so far this week. How do you
square what you're seeing in the data
with what we're hearing from CEOs?
>> Yeah. I mean, when I talk to CEOs, I get
the same thing. We're we're in just hold
pattern in terms of certainly the labor
market. They're not hiring, they're not
firing, they're just watching. And
that's kind of what you see in this
underlying private sector data. There's
not not much happening. So, it wouldn't
take much to sort of tip it. Now, could
I be wrong? Absolutely. I mean, last
year we got a couple of weak labor
market reports that led us to cut in
September and then everything kind of
reversed and back uh went back up. So,
I'm not saying that couldn't happen
again, but it's just we've constantly
seen little bits of data continually
coming down. The Beige Book yesterday
came out. Uh some other stuff that we
get out of the Jolts quits rates, hiring
rates. These things are not indicating a
super healthy private sector labor
market.
>> As you know, you're facing potentially
and I stress potentially negative supply
shocks on both side of the mandate. I
want to sit on the labor market. Just
for one further note, immigration, how
are you thinking about that when you
look at a labor market at the moment
when we have people coming on the
program on Bloomberg surveillance on
Bloomberg TV every single morning 6:00
till 9 coming on here and saying look at
the data. unemployment could stay at
these levels even with job gains of 50
to 100,000 because of tighter
immigration. How does that factor into
your thinking as you look at the US
labor market?
>> Well, yeah, the labor market doesn't
necessarily have to be affected by it
because if workers flow in and they get
jobs at roughly the same rate as the
existing workers, the unemployment rate
doesn't change even though the labor
force is higher. And when they go back
out, the same thing happens. If they
leave the employment and leave the labor
force, you don't see a big change in the
uh inflation rate. now can potentially
affect the break even rate that you
would need to have uh the market going
well and that's what we're still trying
to kind of get a sense of because you
basically brought 5 years of immigration
forward and you know of that eight or
nine million most of them haven't
disappeared so they're still here
somewhere whether they're going to work
they're not going to work but they're
but they're still here I don't where I
think the immigration stuff if
immigration was a big factor you'd be
seeing shortages and you might see some
in you know some industry ries, but like
I pointed out that if you look at the
new college graduate unemployment rate,
it's 7%. It's much higher than it has.
These are not jobs that are being uh
opened up because immigrants are are not
not coming in. That's it should be just
the opposite. If immigrants are leaving
and these jobs are open, then the
unemployment rate should go the other
way. So that unemployment rate to me is
telling me immigration is not the source
of the problem. firms are just holding
off on hiring decisions, even if their
earnings are doing well. That's that's
just what I'm saying they're doing on
the labor side.
>> I wanted to say there's a mutual friend
of ours that feels like he's missing out
this morning. So, he wanted to catch up
with you as well.
>> He's out in Victor, Idaho.
>> He's having a good time, isn't he? Mike
McKe joins us now. Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. And good morning,
Governor Waller. I would say I'm sorry
I'm not there with you, but I bet you're
sorry you're not here with me. I know
you
>> got it. I've been there before. It's a
nice place.
You've made the case now a couple of
times for a July rate cut, but uh how
committed are you? Are you willing to
disscent at this meeting if the majority
votes the other way?
>> Well, I never want to commit to an
action before the meeting. Otherwise, if
everybody committed before, you don't
even need to have the meeting to have a
discussion. So, the goal is to always go
to the meeting, sit down, listen to all
sides. People will try to convince me of
their view, I'll try to convince them of
my views. And in the end of the day, you
make the decision on what you think is
the right the right outcome and the
right data uh how the data is coming in.
And right now I laid out my case last I
don't think I could be any more clear I
hope as to what my position is and why I
think we need to do this. It's just how
I read the data and how I think about
going forward how you respond to
anything that involves tariffs.
There's a lot of politics in this
decision coming up uh more than usual
and I'm wondering Governor Bowman has
also suggested she would prefer a rate
cut in July if two of you vote for a
rate cut. If two of you were to desend
would you worry about the market
reaction to that?
>> You know one of the things that has
always bothered me since I took this job
is the criticism that we are nothing but
group think. All the meetings are the
same. Nobody desends. Nobody does
anything. And I think this is healthy. I
think this is a turning point in the way
we want to think about policy. Some
people don't want to cut, some do want
to cut. But coming out and making the
case either side, that's good, healthy
debate. Otherwise, if we're always going
to do the same, the joke is why don't
you just have one person set policy and
send the other 18 FOMC members home. So
this is healthy. I think this is what
you want to see in a democracy. want to
see policy makers have serious open
discussion about where policy should go.
It doesn't mean anything about politics
or anything else. It's make the economic
argument and then see if you can
convince others to go along with you.
And that's all I'm trying to do.
>> We totally agree with you. For the
record, we were sick of the group
thinking it's good to have descent.
>> Yeah.
>> Mike essentially is asking if you will
descent at the end of this month. Is
there value in dissenting on the FCC?
Well, I mean, it's it's often the case
that you dissent if you make it very
clear, you think at this moment in time,
this is an important thing to do. If you
were to go in and do kind of a jihadist,
I'm going to disscent at every single
meeting no matter what happens. Then you
don't even have to show up. Everybody
knows what you're going to do. So it it
is important to make sure that if you
disscent, you do it carefully and you
have the right reasons and it's not
going to turn into a serial dissenting
potential case. I mean that's how I take
my job seriously and responsibly. So I
only would think about doing this I
desented on the balance sheet slowdown
earlier this year because I felt like
that was not needed. Um, and that's kind
of the situation we're in now.
>> Uh, Chris, if uh you do cut, uh, the
markets will go one way. If you don't,
uh, they'll go another perhaps. Uh, are
h how critical is it to get to a rate
cut fairly quickly. You've mentioned the
danger to the labor market, but if you
do wait till September, is that going to
be too late?
>> Well, that's that's kind of the debate.
What? But what does it mean to wait 6
weeks? Is it that critical? And I the
answer is probably not. It could be, but
it's also the reverse. Why wait till
September if it's just 6 weeks? That's
exactly the thing. It doesn't kind of
matter. Just start thinking about, do I
want to wait and risk something
happening? This is what we saw last
summer, by the way. We left July, we
left rates, and then boom, we got a very
weak um bad labor market report. The
unemployment rate jumped 2/10. Payrolls
went way down from where they were. And
people were screaming at us last August.
You guys should have cut in July. So one
month, Ken, it it always is one month.
Just remember that. It's just one month.
But we live in a world in which we have
to respond to real-time data to kind of
sense of where the economy is going. And
I've always said if you worry about long
and variable lags, which everybody
always talks about, the whole point of
that is to get ahead of it, not wait for
it to happen and then take a policy
action that takes quarters or months
down the road to actually have any
impact.
>> The new worry is tariffs. We've just had
a six-minute conversation with you about
monetary policy. You've built a case for
lower interest rates and no one's talked
about trade or inflation. Two
assumptions in your speech yesterday,
and I think they're important
assumptions. a large share of tariff
increases won't be passed through to
consumers. Any increase would fade over
the next year or so. What data underpins
that conclusion?
>> Well, one, it's just first, it's just
economic theory. So, you put on a tar
tariff, as long as it's a one-time
tariff and that's it, that's a onetime
price effect. I mean, this is economic
theory. You could not get in any serious
economic model persistent inflation from
that. You would have to cook up some
other amplification mechanisms. And
that's what people talk about. Wages
will start going up and everything will
get out of control. You're not seeing
that at all. This is just not those kind
of amplification mechanism or wage price
spirals aren't happening.
Tariffs are attacks. And in public
finance, you learn that you may levy a
tax on a firm, but who bears the
incidence or the burden of that tax? Can
be a group of people or one person, not
necessarily the firm. So, this is what
I've heard from a lot of firms. If
there's a 10% tax, they'll force their
suppliers to eat some of that cost.
Workers may eat some of that cost in
terms of the less hiring and things like
that, the firm will take it out of their
profit margins. And then lastly, some of
it will get passed on. And as I
mentioned last night, I've heard this
for months now, like the rule is 10% is
roughly rule of thumb is a third, a
third, a third. Suppliers will eat a
third, firms eat a third, consumers
going to eat a third of that tariff. So
if you eat a third of it and it's 10%
like I've been arguing this is like
3/10en of a three bas 3 3 310 on the
inflation rate for a few months and
that's it and it'll persist if you do 12
month over 12 month that base effect
will not go away for a while and then
it'll just drop off a cliff. So that's
why I've been arguing you want to look
at like 3 month and 6 months to see if
these tariff effects pop up and then go
away. And so that's more critical than
looking at 12 month.
>> Yes. But the way the president is
putting these tariffs on might not match
up with theory, Chris. The uh smooth
holly tax was passed and came into
effect on a certain date. Uh the
president is not yet put on most of
these tariffs. they're in theory still
coming and we still haven't seen the
section 232 tariffs for the most part
the the national defense tariffs that he
wants to put on semiconductors and
pharmaceuticals etc. So if the process
is stretched out, consumers could be hit
by a series, an ongoing series of tariff
increases. And given what they've just
been through, isn't there a danger that
inflation psychology starts to seep in?
>> Well, that's exactly the point. I that
all my examples been is if you put the
10% uniform tariff on and keep it
roughly in that range, then what I've
described is what'll happen. If there's
constantly a sequence of higher and
higher and higher tariffs, then you are
going to get this rolling potential
impact on prices. That that that's true.
If it's still just a question of
delaying it, that doesn't change my
argument. Whether you see the spike in
July or it happens in June or I mean
August or September, when it happens is
irrelevant for the economics. That's
that's a that's a non-starter of an
argument. firms could also just spread
it out in smaller increments over
several months. The total effect still
ends up being the same. They just get
there in a later fashion and it'll be
smaller amounts. So the bigger thing is
if we just continually get another wave
of tariffs, another wave of tariffs,
another waves of tariffs, that's when
things become more problematic thinking
about what's going to happen with
inflation.
>> You don't think the Federal Reserve
should wait? I just want to talk about
the experience of last year. I think
Lisa's done a fantastic job of covering
this over the last 6, seven, eight
months. the move we saw last year, 100
basis point reduction in interest rates
on Fed funds and then we saw a
corresponding move of 100 basis points
higher at the long end of the yield
curve. Yields down did not happen. It
was yields up and mortgage costs up as
well. How do you think one informed the
other and how might that shape your
approach to cutting interest rates this
time around?
>> Well, I think last September there was a
lot of remember the long-term rates were
going down through August and early
September. This was not any
contradiction in what we were doing.
It's just after the September meeting,
the data just came back in the opposite
way. Growth was up, productivity was up,
employment suddenly took back off and
then you have real growth expectations
being much higher. We were seeing
productivity growth and GDP growth are
close to 3%. So in that case, long rates
go up anyway. So it's not necessarily
there was some counterreaction to what
we were doing. I never saw inflation
expectations adjust that caused all
this. You don't think it was the market
questioning your commitment to the
inflation mandate?
>> If it would have been, you'd have seen
it inflation expectations in the market,
not the Michigan thing, but we didn't
see it. I mean, inflation expectations
stayed fairly anchored all through this,
rise. So, I think the increase in long
rate was just all the data was coming in
for a better, stronger economy than we
thought it was going to be in September.
That's fine with me. You know, I
sometimes you're going to do these
things taking a shot that I want to make
sure we don't have a hard landing. And
as I said, with any kind of an insurance
cut, sometimes you don't need the
insurance. It didn't work out. But that
doesn't mean you go back and say, "Oh,
that was a stupid decision to make."
>> Market-based expectations of inflation.
Let's sit on this. There are clear and
obvious threats to the central bank's
independence right now. Every single day
on this program, we're quoting the
president, calling the chairman too
late, and going after lower interest
rates. And I think a way that you and I
can have this conversation without
addressing those those calls directly is
to think about what's happening with
inflation expectations. Do these threats
threaten to deanker market-based
inflation expectations? And is that
something you and the committee might
become increasingly sensitive to in the
months to come?
>> Well, like I said, I look at the infl,
you know, after the tariffs coming on,
everybody was worried about deanchoring
expectations, particularly after some of
these Michigan surveys came out. When I
I always look at the market based
expectation because money people have
money in the game. Firms are making
decisions on what their chief economists
are saying and if those things are
wrong, they're going to lose a lot of
money. So, I've always paid more
attention. I haven't seen much in the
way of market expectations being
unanchored in any ways you want to
measure them, any forward. Now, in the
near term, of course, they might go up
because you would see inflation in the
short term, but in the longer term ones,
I'm not I'm not seeing it. So either the
market is just dismissing all of this as
chatter and noise or at some point if
something happens such that it becomes
much more serious then you might see a
discrete jump uh and then you know
that's that's going to be a problem for
everybody.
One of the questions that we get all the
time, Chris, from people on Wall Street
is or one of the posits they make is
that all this criticism of the Fed is
hurting Fed credibility and that the
next chairman's going to have a tough
job because there are going to be
expectations for the next chairman uh
set by the White House rather than by
the e economy. Uh do you feel that
inside the building?
>> No, I to be absolutely honest, we just
do our job every day. I go in, I just
focus on my work on monetary policy,
payments, and oversight of the reserve
banks. That's what I do. I let this
stuff go and then just try to focus on
my job. And I think that's how all of us
are proceeding with this. I mean, at the
end of the day, the president winning,
whoever they choose, you're going to
have to have somebody that has
credibility with the markets or you will
see, as Jonathan was just talking about,
you're going to see inflation
expectations spike. You will not get
lower interest rates. You will get
higher interest rates. This is well
known. We've seen this everywhere around
the world when this happens. And I I
know Scott Den knows this. So this is
not something that is lost on anybody.
>> You've been nominated by this president
for the seat on the board. Yes.
>> You were previously director of research
for Jim Bulad way back then.
>> Is it a position you would like? Is it
something you would like to do in the
future?
>> Look, in 2019, the president contacted
me and said, "Would you serve?" And I
said, "Yes." If the president contacted
me and said, "I want you to serve, I
would do it." But he's not contacting
me.
>> What say if he does?
>> If he says, "Chris, I want you to do the
job." I'll say, "Yes." But he's not
talking to me, so that's it. It's a
hypothetical that um
>> that might change, sir. It's good to see
you. We appreciate your time.
>> All right. Thanks.
>> You've been very generous with it. Thank
you very much. The Federal Reserve
Governor there, Christopher Waller, Mike
McKe, thanks as well to you, sir, as
always. Up next on the program, we'll
get you some morning calls. Plus, we'll
catch up with Dan Ies of Wedbush. And
we'll break down this conversation we've
just had around this table. The case for
lower interest rates.
[Music]
The headline numbers for the labor
market, what we're seeing are okay, but
it's like when you get underneath and
start looking at the data, the private
sector is not doing as well as everybody
thinks it is. If you're walking on a
lake and the ice is frozen and it sounds
safe, but when you start hearing cracks,
and that's what I feel like, it's too
late once you go through the ice.
>> Federal Reserve Governor Chris Waller on
this program just moments ago, Lisa,
making the case for lower interest
rates.
>> Yeah. Saying that you have to do it
before it's too late. making the case
that we've heard a lot. I mean, too
late. He's taken on a new meeting. Now,
of course, uh there is this question
whether he's going to descent. It sounds
like he will descend and he really
raised the point, this is actually good.
You want descent. We're at a turning
point in the economy and that's
typically when you do have countering
views. Really refreshing. You talked
about there should be debate amongst
policy makers. There should not be this
group think, which is something most
people on Wall Street, this
administration completely agree with
when it comes to whether or not he would
be the next Fed chair. said the
president has not reached out to him,
but the president did reach out to him
to join the board and if he was asked to
be the Fed chair, he would serve.
>> These two points that he made this
morning and last night here in New York
City on tariffs and this is the key
argument that he's going to have to
confront the rest of the FOMC with that
a large share of tariff increases won't
be passed through to consumers and if
they are that increase will fade over
time and it's something we should look
through. Point one on inflation. Point
two, and I think this is going to be
maybe a little bit easier to get across
to the rest of the committee. We can't
keep going around saying the economy is
solid and we have the luxury of waiting
because you've got an individual there
that's saying we don't. And I think he's
got some friends. He's got some company
on that point on the committee.
>> It isn't just Mickey Bowman. It's also
Mary Dailyaly and she said it really
would not be a good thing to see the
labor market deteriorate any great more
greatly than it has already. You're also
seeing Neil Dada. You're seeing others
talking about how the private payrolls
just really hasn't picked up. And one
thing that Governor Waller mentioned was
the Beige book. And I know that we joke
about the Beige book being really
boring, but it actually is really
important because what it highlights is
that almost every single district shows
a weakening in the labor conditions and
a weakening in the belief of labor
conditions going forward. And that I
think is getting their attention. He
talked about tariffs as a tax, but he
talked about how it is really divided
amongst the supply chain. So that tax
when it hits a consumer is only about a
third. He said constant sequencing of
tariffs, continuously ratcheting it up,
not 10 15%. That could potentially be a
problem. But how difficult is it going
to be when you have a Fed governor that
has a tremendous amount of credibility
coming on the program saying that
tariffs are only a oneoff increase in
price levels. Then the Fed chair might
come out and say, "Well, we can't move
because we don't know the tariff rates."
Well, here's an individual saying we
should be moving and the tariff rates
don't matter.
>> It's a credible argument for lower
interest rates which might find some
company on the committee and for that
reason he's going to find it easier to
engineer the kind of low rates that the
administration would quite like. You go
with someone from outside of the
building, you got a much much bigger
problem. If this market perceived, and
it is an if, if this market perceives
them just to be a political puppet and
someone without the credibility.
>> If they're lowering rates simply because
they're doing so in response to the
president, that's going to lead to
inflation expectations becoming unward.
And you'd see that in market pricing,
not the University of Michigan thing as
Governor Waller said, and that seems to
be uh what his argument was this
morning.
>> Don't we get the University of Michigan
thing later this morning?
>> We do. We get a University of Michigan
thing. And actually, it's been doing
better, but a lot of people dismiss it.
Sounds like Governor Waller doesn't open
that one.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Sarah House of Wells Fargo on the
state of the consumer. Plus, we'll speak
to Yahara with your morning movies and a
sign that high-end shoppers are still
spending. Live from New York City, this
is Bloomberg.
[Music]
60 minutes away from the open and bal
equity futures on the S&P 500 positive
by a tenth of 1% looking to add some
weight to a record-breaking rally state
side on the NASDAQ 100. We're positive
by 0.06.
Let's get you some morning movers this
morning. Let's cross over to Yahara. Hey
yara.
>> Hi John. The wealthy are doing just
fine. Take a look at American Express
shares. are up 1% after it beat results.
It is not a huge surprise given all
we've heard from economists about the
bifurcation of the US consumer and how
the wealthy are driving the spending and
MX is confirming that with its strong
transaction volume being fueled by its
most premium products and that is
significant because competition in the
space is heating up with JP Morgan and
City both leaning into that. But AMX
says that it's ready with a refresh of
its platinum card coming this fall. And
we turn to another company that just
reported and that is Charles Schwab.
Shares are up 2.3%
after beating on both the top and bottom
lines thanks to a flurry of activity in
the second quarter. Though there were
some weak spots. Schwab attracted $73.6
billion in total net new assets which
did come in below estimates. And we end
with some breaking news. Chevron and
Hess have closed their deal. We have
Chevron rising 3.7%, Hess rising 7.6%.
And this is after just this morning we
heard that Hes won its arbitration
battle with Exxon Mobile clearing the
way for this deal. $53 billion takeover
to move forward. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Have a good weekend. Let's turn
back to the big story of the last 24
hours. as one Federal Reserve Governor
Christopher Waller continuing to build
the case for a July rate cut. Mike McKe
joins us now for more. Mike McKe, how
convincing was the argument and will he
find some friends on the committee at
the end of the month?
>> I definitely think he'll find friends on
the committee. The question is how much
do they buy into the need to do it in
July? We've heard a lot of people,
including Mary Dailyaly yesterday
speaking with us, say that they are
worried about the labor market and they
are worried uh that they could be too
late, but that it doesn't seem to have
the urgency of a July rate cut. So,
Waller and perhaps Governor Bowman are
going to make the case for it. We don't
know how many people are going to buy
that case and would vote for it. So,
we'll not only be watching the news of
the uh meeting, but we'll be watching
the minutes to see who spoke up and and
what they were saying.
>> Mike, also the statement. Talk to us
about the statement and the kind of
concessions that maybe the rest of the
committee might make to some of the dubs
that are emerging on the FOMC. Some of
the language there at the moment that
might have to change.
Well, the Fed has gotten away from very
long statements, so they might try to
finesse this by just uh noting that the
labor market has shown signs of cooling.
The real question is how much of a
commitment do they make to a September
cut? In the past, we have seen
negotiations behind the scenes that lead
to the Fed not doing something what a a
prominent member wants them to do, but
suggesting that will be on the table in
the future. Do they put a rate cut in
September more firmly on the future to
satisfy Waller and Bowman and to try to
get them to vote uh unanimously in July
or do they let that go by? That that's
going to be something that Wall Street
is watching very closely on July 30th.
>> Mike McKe, you enjoy wherever you are
and wherever you're going next. It's
good to see you. Mike McKe there
following the Federal Reserve and the
arguments for lower rates at the Fed
later this month. You know, just I have
to say the argument for more disscent is
one that resonates with me.
>> Oh, without a doubt.
>> Given the fact that it shouldn't be
group think, number one. Number two,
this is a complicated, difficult
economic moment. It is one where people
can have different appointment opinions
and different interpretations. And you
see that across Wall Street. It might in
that statement be a really good thing to
show an active debate and how different
members are thinking about it because it
gives a sense of what the scenario
analysis is at the central bank of the
United States.
>> What did he call you?
>> What was it?
>> The um thing.
>> That thing.
>> Yeah. Not interested. That survey.
>> That thing comes out a little bit later
this morning at 10:00 a.m. Eastern time.
Sarah House of Wells Fargo has this to
say on the consumer. Headwinds for the
consumer persist. Slower job growth and
higher inflation are a recipe for weaker
real income growth. Joining us now is
Sarah House. Sarah, welcome to the
program. Let's get into this consumer in
this labor market. What we just heard
from Governor Chris Waller is that this
labor market is on the edge. Do you
agree? Is it on the edge?
>> I agree. I think it's certainly more
fragile than you would expect from if
you're just looking at the topline
payroll numbers and the unemployment
rate. When we look underneath the
surface, as Governor Waller highlighted,
you know, slower growth in private
payrolls and also just looking at the
breadth of industries adding jobs has
been one thing that's really stood out
to me. If you look at that diffusion
index, it's below 50. We've only seen
that three times in the past 15 years
outside of a recession. And one of those
times was just two months ago. So, I
think there there are certainly signs
that the labor market is more fragile
than it looks. We see this with demand
continuing to to weaken as well.
businesses not using employees as
intensely, for example, looking at the
average work week. So, I think that does
challenge the consumer as as we move
through also a potentially higher
inflation period over the next few
months.
>> One thing that John asked, Governor
Waller, that I think is one of the key
questions as we talk about the potential
fragilityities in the labor market is
corporate America seems to be doing just
fine and the earnings are actually
outperforming expectations and you're
seeing record highs. How do you square
that? Yeah. So, I think part of it comes
down to, you know, we're looking at some
of the biggest mo most well-unded public
companies, but of course, a lot of job
creation is by more of your midsize
firms, of course, your small businesses
as well. And there I think we're seeing
more struggle. So, you can see this
with, for example, the NFIB hiring plans
and the overall index and also just a
lot of the middle market companies that,
you know, we at Wells Fargo talk to a
lot. You know, they're they're seeing
some some pressure as well. So, I think
it's just like we're seeing in the
consumer, sometimes it's a little bit of
a of a tale of of two sizes here,
>> which also raises the question of where
we're going to see the investment boom
that everyone keeps talking about. The
beginning of a new bull market, as we
heard Mike Wilson say of Morgan Stanley
yesterday when he was speaking with John
and Amarie, I just wondering at what
point that creates jobs, at what point
that creates inflation, at what point
that creates growth that people are
discounting when they talk about this
fragility, these cracks.
>> Yeah. So I think in some ways you know
when we look at the productivity uh
potential that we're seeing already
we've seen pretty strong productivity
growth this cycle still a lot of upside
when we think about some of the genai
enhancements but of course that could
challenge what we're seeing in terms of
all overall employment growth but it's
also coming at a time of slower growth
in the labor supply. So it could
actually potentially be uh a nice offset
to a lot of businesses needs and then to
the extent that this is productivity
enhancing that's actually going to be
beneficial for for the inflation
outlook.
>> What's the smaller growth though in the
labor supply? Governor Waller was just
talking about the unemployment rate for
college grads at 7%. That feels
uncomfortably high.
>> Yeah, I agree. So again, this is, you
know, we're looking at slower growth in
the labor supply, but that's coming
largely from uh immigration. We've seen
a very noticeable drop off in foreignb
born workers in in the labor force, but
you know, they're filling a lot of jobs
that your college grads are are not
looking for. And so I think that does
speak to more underlying weakness and
payroll growth slowing, not just because
of the supply side, but also because
we're continuing to see demand weaken.
>> So do you think that Sarah, it is all
sufficient to say that any kind of
inflationary hit from the tariffs will
be temporary?
So I I think that's a reasonable base
case. So that's what we're looking at.
So here at Wells Fargo, so looking for
inflation to to move up to a little over
3% by the end of the year, but then move
back down as we move through through
2026 with really the lift coming
entirely from the good sector. We're not
looking for that to spill over into
services. But I think understandably a
lot of other Fed members remain cautious
given the bout of inflation that we just
went through. And I think concerns that
given how high inflation has been, we're
more than four years above target, that
even just one more supply shock, even if
it should be temporary, does that begin
to unanch anchor inflation expectations?
So, understandably, they're they're a
little skittish, maybe a little bit
scarred from the episode that they just
went through, but you know, perhaps
another few months of data showing that
it's not bleeding into services, I think
could be helpful and and help resume
rate cuts as we move uh into the the
later months of the year.
>> Sarah House of Wells Fargo. Sarah, thank
you. Appreciate your time as always.
It's why some members are holding back
still. It's two months of data enough to
get to September and say, "We're ready
to go."
>> Yeah. How much are they scarred from
their previous experience where they
didn't catch up to inflation quickly
enough and they said the T-word, they
don't want to go back to the T-word.
It's a little bit worrying some to them.
At this point though, an increasing
number of economists, and we keep
talking about Mary Daly's interview with
Mike McKe, but she also talked about
this, that she also is seeing that it's
more likely that it is going to be a
one-time price shock, especially when
met with the weakness that we keep
talking about with potential cracks in
the labor market.
>> This conversation will continue at least
for the next two weeks and maybe the
next several months. Let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. With your Bloomberg brief,
here's Lizzie Burton. Hey, Lizzy.
>> Hey, John. President Trump has been
diagnosed with a chronic venus
insufficiency, a common condition
causing swollen ankles. The White House
medical unit says that he remains in
excellent health though with no signs of
DBT, heart failure, or systemic illness.
Doctors attribute recent hand bruising
to aspirin use and frequent handshakes,
calling it benign. Elsewhere, shares of
Serea Therapeutics are plummeting after
the company said another patient has
died from acute liver failure after
receiving one of its gene therapies.
That news follows the recent deaths of
two teenage boys who participated in the
early stage trial for the treatment. The
company says it's in discussions with
the FDA about resolving safety concerns.
And a change in the late night lineup.
The Late Show with Steven Colbear will
air its last episode in May of next
year. CBS says it was a purely financial
decision. The moves come days after
Colbear condemned Paramount settlement
of President Donald Trump's lawsuit over
a 60-minute story. Colbear called it
quote a big fat bride and that's your
blue mo brief John
>> Lizzy thank you have a good weekend up
next on the program setting you up for
the week ahead plus we'll catch up with
son desai of Franklin Templeton on the
tension building at the Federal Reserve
from New York City you're watching
Bloomberg Hey,
[Music]
two days of gains on the S&P 500 going
into the weekend. looking for record
highs after record highs. This morning,
all-time highs up a tenth of 1% on the
S&P 500. And so far this week, the
equity market bulls getting a lot of
what they want. Decent earnings from the
banks, decent data so far in the economy
in the United States. And even someone
who was bearish sounded very bullish.
Even my Wilson and Morgan Stanley likes
this market.
>> People like the idea of this investment
cycle. And I really can't emphasize it
enough. When I talk to people, there is
an existential fear that they cannot
invest enough in technology and they are
going to lose their entire business if
they are on the back foot. And that is a
reason why it's not just the tech
companies. There is a feeling that
corporate America is going to withstand.
Also, the consumers holding in I mean
people are still traveling. People are
still going out to eat. I don't know.
It's really expensive. So for you,
>> but I, you know, would live in a box. So
there you go.
>> You spoke to Scots Kirby of United. I
keep going back to this. what we're
hearing from the airlines is so
different to what we're seeing in the
data even on the airlines and airfares.
He said that it was like a switch that
went on after the one big beautiful bill
was passed. Also some of the disruptions
in the Middle East definitely uh
relieved some of the pressure when you
saw sort of an end to that. There's just
a question here. Who's right? Right. Is
there weakness or isn't there? Are
Americans just sort of conditioned to
spend money and so they want to keep
doing it. Is it sort of a secular trend
toward travel and away from physical
goods or are things not that bad and
actually there aren't the cracks
emerging that some people are worried
about? Can I go with the second one?
Number two, conditioned to spend.
>> I mean, yeah. And also, you know, you
got to get the Instagram. You got to get
It's all about the brand.
>> They say never bet against the American
consumer.
>> It's true.
>> Just keep on spending. Check out the
bond market. Bonds are bid, yields are
lower. We're down three basis points at
the front end of the curve on a 2-year
387 on a 10-year down 3 to 442. A bond
market rally after this. We caught up
with the Fed Governor Christopher
Waller, who's calling for a rate cut
this month.
One of the things that has always
bothered me since I took this job is the
criticism that we are nothing but group
think. All the meanings are the same.
Nobody desends. Nobody does anything.
And I think this is healthy. I think
this is a turning point in the way we
want to think about policy. Some people
don't want to cut, some do want to cut.
But coming out and making the case
either side, that's good, healthy
debate. Otherwise, if we're always going
to do the same, the joke is, why don't
you just have one person set policy and
send the other 18 FOMC members home? So,
this is healthy. I think this is what
you want to see in a democracy. You want
to see policy makers have serious open
discussion about where policy should go.
It doesn't mean anything about politics
or anything else is make the economic
argument and then see if you can
convince others to go along with you.
You never know what someone's thinking.
But just listening back over that, my
interpretation of it was a man who was
very sophisticatedly navigating a very
important issue, communicating that it's
not one man rule on the FMC at a time
when a lot of pressure is building on
one man.
>> Yes. And so on one hand you could
interpret this as giving him a pass in
terms of uh Jay Powell making all the
decisions or you could say well there
are other voices that can be heard at a
time where people are increasingly
saying his voice carries quite a bit of
clout given his potential role at the
Fed. Another stealth argument he made
towards the end was talking about
inflation and credibility. Without
credibility of the central bank being
independent, inflation expectations
would spike. and he said, "I know that
and Scott Bessett knows that." So
basically talking about the fact that
whoever is going to be the Fed chair
next, everyone in the White House knows
that person needs to have credibility
because inflation expectations will then
spike, which is exactly what this
administration does not want to see.
>> The Ever Bows about 42 minutes away as
we work our way towards the weekend.
Just a sneak peek of next week for you.
On Tuesday, you will hear from the Fed
chair J Pal speaking at the FOMC's
regulatory conference. On Wednesday,
more results from Tesla and Alphabet.
Thursday, a rate decision from the ECB
and we'll get more earnings from Intel
and American Airlines, plus another
round of jobless claims. Let's stick
with the week ahead and Fed Chair J Pal
speaking on Tuesday as President Trump
ramps up the pressure for a rate cut.
Son of Desire, Franklin Templeton
writing, the FOMC is already envisioning
several 50 basis points of rate cuts
this year, followed by more next. I
happen to disagree with the policy, but
I also think this confirms that the Fed
already has a dovish bias. Son joins us
now for more. So now I just want to get
into your thoughts on where you stand on
this rate cut debate at the moment. Why
don't you think a rate cut currently at
least is warranted.
>> Okay. Before I get to that, that
statement misstated what I was saying.
The FOMC foresees 50 basis points of
rate cuts this year and several rate
cuts next year. And I think that is
probably not warranted. And really
because the economy is kind of doing
fine. We've talked about this several
times in the past. I happen to think
that uh the neutral fed funds rate is
between 4 and 425. We've talked about
this before two two and a quarter of
inflation, 1.75 or so of uh productivity
gains unless it looks like recession is
imminent. It's not clear to me why the
Fed should be cutting rates all the way
down to close to 3% in this environment.
We have become used to extremely low
rates and prior to the global financial
crisis, we had decades of rates being
more normalized and that's why I don't
think it's needed.
>> Sel that said a lot of people do expect
the Fed to cut to that level that you're
talking about and you're not seeing an
unmored level of inflation expectations
baked into the market as Governor Chris
Waller was just saying. So do you think
that the market right now is
underpricing the potential for future
inflation?
I think it is probably and and the point
is the future inflation that I see is
probably not associated, let me be
clear, with tariffs for a number of
reasons. It's not just that they're
one-off. Frankly, tariffs don't impact
enough of the CPI basket to have a
meaningful impact on overall inflation.
The real reason is fiscal policy remains
very loose. Monetary policy is not
particularly tight and we aren't seeing
unemployment do terrible things. wages
aren't doing terrible things. This is an
economy which remains in relatively rude
good good health right now. And that's
why I think we aren't seeing the
pressures. What brings inflation down?
Let me turn it on its head and say from
its current levels, which by the way are
50% higher than where the Fed needs them
to needs inflation to be. What brings
inflation down?
>> I don't see very many factors. One thing
that people argue is you are seeing I
don't know if it's cracks in the labor
market but a sign that private
employment really is coming down and you
saw that really in the last non-farm
payrolls report which is what uh
Governor Waller was talking about but
you're hearing companies say this as
well that they don't have the same kind
of pricing power that they did in the
direct aftermath of the pandemic. So at
what point will that push back that
you're seeing from the consumer act as a
check and something that really is
consistent with what we're hearing from
corporate executives
>> that once we see some more uh once we
can hang a bit more meat to that
particular story. I'd say I would agree.
So far it's a data point. It's a few
data points and actually we've seen some
fairly decent corporate earnings as
well. we got yesterday's retail sales
for example. I I really don't know that
we're at the cusp of something dramatic
happening to this economy and uh getting
clarity on the fiscal front. Uh whether
you like the bill or hate the bill, we
do have clarity from the bill. That
actually is a corporate tailwind, not a
headwind. So I'm not yet prepared to say
that we're getting to a point of
significant weakening of this economy.
>> So does that mean sel that you're all in
on a high yield and you're shorting the
30-year?
>> No, I'm aggressively neutral on rates in
general and I am looking at if I think
about all the different factors which
come into play. I think fair value for
US 10 years is actually probably around
475 to 5. Do we get there? It's not
completely clear. Uh, weirdly enough,
actually, after being concerned about
fiscal for so long, I think something
that people might be underpricing is
that if tariffs go through anywhere
close to the level we've seen so far
this year, we actually have an
additional source of revenue which has
not been factored in to anybody's
calculations, but it's quite substantial
actually. You know, the the type of
revenue which is coming in. So, there
are lots of unknowns here. I think that
the spreads we're seeing on high yield
are extremely tight. That's very clear.
I think you need to be very careful. So,
it's not that I'm all in. I'm just
looking at this and waiting for some
volatility to continue to pick up
interesting interesting
interesting credits in interesting
places. I don't think you can buy any
indices, which you would do if you were
all in and spreads were enormously
attractive at this.
>> So, now you you also think the markets
are just overhyped when it comes to the
controversy between Trump and Powell.
Are you willing to close that door then
about the White House and Trump
potentially firing him? You just don't
think it's going to happen at all.
>> It's not a question of happening or not
happening. I don't think it matters is
my point. You would get volatility if he
fired uh fired uh Powell for cause if
some of the controversy current
controversy results in something
meaningful, which I'm doubtful about,
but supposing it does, and supposing
Powell is fired, I I I would just note
what exactly is it that we're all
terrified about? an enormously dovish uh
fed chair. Can I ask everyone on the
program today who was our last hawkish
fed chair?
Let me tell you, it was Paul Vulkar. You
have to go back 50 years. Yeah. So,
let's not act as if getting a Dish Fed
chair is something none of us have ever
encountered. I give you Janet Yellen. I
give you Jay Powell who actually did
preside together with the supremely
doubbish Fed over one of the biggest
policy errors that we've seen in a very
long time. That policy error was not to
be overly hawkish. It was to be overly
doubbish. So I think when I say it's
being overhyped, it is this notion that
somehow we're going to get someone truly
beyond the pale who is going to come and
knock monetary policy completely off
course.
It's 12 members who get to disscent or
not to descent. I think that the
institution has a certain amount of
credibility and no incoming Fed chair
who by the way survives this
administration and whose term will run
into the subsequent administration would
like to have his legacy fall under that
footnote that Arthur Burns has in the
annals of the Fed.
>> You ever seen that scene of a bunch of
football fans watching the game and they
score and then all the beers get thrown
into the air? Yeah.
>> And now people have put different video
in that screen and then they throw the
beers into the air. That was an old
design. The big screen
>> starts going on that rant about the
Federal Reserve. All the beers getting
thrown into the air. Everyone's going
crazy.
>> Yeah, that's very much. That was a
fantastic fantastic explanation and
frankly history lesson.
>> So, thank you. Some design there.
Franklin Templeton. It's got a point.
It's got a point and a point a lot of
people I think will share.
>> Yeah. The idea of no one wants to be
Arthur Burns. No one really has the
stomach to be Paul Vulker either. And
that's certainly what we've seen over
the past, you know, what did she say, 40
years.
>> And Paul Donovan recently made the point
this week with Danny Burgerer of UBS
that actually that Arthur Burns type
Nixon relationship where on the surface
you think this person is independent,
but actually what they're talking about,
you see later years in the minutes is
pretty much what Nixon was saying. He
said that is the worst type of Fed chair
we can get.
>> Where are these weeks going? They're
just flying by, aren't they?
>> Well, I mean, how you you think about
what's happened in the past month? I
mean, I can't remember half of the
things that were headlines that
dominated our life.
>> August is going to be fun. Two more
weeks of July, of course, but couple of
trade deadlines in the mix. Should we
go? I think we should go. Coming up on
Monday, Lori Cavscina of RBC, Bob of JP
Morgan, Tony Desperto of Black Rockck,
Chris Harvey of Wells Fargo. From
everyone here at Bloomberg Surveillance,
thank you very much for choosing
Bloomberg TV. Have a wonderful weekend.
This was Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]